<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="creating-an-ant-build-script">
  <title>Creating an Ant build script</title>
  <shortdesc>Instead of typing the DITA-OT parameters at the command prompt, you might want to create an Ant build
    script that contains all of the parameters.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>link</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>default</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Ant<indexterm>build script</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>relationship tables<indexterm>PDF</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create an XML file that contains the following content:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
&lt;project name="%project-name%" default="%default-target%" basedir=".">

  &lt;property name="dita.dir" location="%path-to-DITA-OT%"/>

  &lt;target name="%target-name%">
    &lt;ant antfile="${dita.dir}/build.xml">
      &lt;property name="args.input" value="%DITA-input%"/>
      &lt;property name="transtype" value="html5"/>
    &lt;/ant>
  &lt;/target>

&lt;/project></codeblock>
        </info>
        <info>You will replace the placeholder content (indicated by the % signs) with content applicable to your
          environment.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Specify project information:</cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep importance="optional">
            <cmd>Set the value of the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute to the name of your project.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Set the value of the <xmlatt>default</xmlatt> attribute to the name of a target in the build
              script.</cmd>
            <info>If the build script is invoked without specifying a target, this target will be run.</info>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the value of the <parmname>dita.dir</parmname> property to the location of the DITA-OT
          installation.</cmd>
        <info>This can be a fully qualified path, or you can specify it relative to the location of the Ant build script
          that you are writing. </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create the Ant target:</cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Set the value of the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Specify the value for the <parmname>args.input</parmname> property.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Specify the value of the <parmname>transtype</parmname> property.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the build script.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <example>
      <p>The following Ant build script generates CHM and PDF output for the sample DITA maps.</p>
      <p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"><coderef href="../samples/ant_sample/build-chm-pdf.xml"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In addition to the mandatory parameters (<parmname>args.input</parmname> and <parmname>transtype</parmname>),
        the chm and pdf targets each specify some optional parameters:
        <ul>
          <li>The <parmname>args.gen.task.lbl</parmname> property is set to YES, which ensures that headings are
            automatically generated for the sections of task topics.</li>
          <li>The <parmname>output.dir</parmname> property specifies where DITA-OT writes the output of the
            transformations.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>The pdf target also specifies that related links should be generated in the PDF, but only those links that are
        created by relationship tables and <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements.</p>
      <p>Finally, the all target simply specifies that both the chm and pdf target should be run.</p>
    </example>
    <postreq>Another resource for learning about Ant scripts are the files in the <filepath
        conref="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/samples-dir"/><filepath>/ant_sample/</filepath> directory. This
      directory contains sample Ant build files for common output formats, as well as templates that you can use to
      create your own Ant scripts.</postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
