<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<topic id="normalized-dita">
  <title>Normalized DITA</title>
  <shortdesc>The <codeph>dita</codeph> transformation generates normalized topics and maps from DITA input. The
    normalized output includes the results of DITA Open Toolkit pre-processing operations, which resolve map references,
    keys, content references, code references and push metadata back and forth between maps and topics.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command<indexterm>normalized DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>transformations<indexterm>normalized DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>normalized</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>map</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>topic</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>plug-ins<indexterm>dita2dita</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>dita2dita</indexterm>
        <indexterm>relationship tables<indexterm>normalized DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <body>
    <p>In comparison to the source DITA files, the normalized DITA files are modified in the following ways:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>References from one DITA map to another are resolved</li>
      <li>Map-based links, such as those generated by map hierarchy and relationship tables, are added to the
        topics.</li>
      <li>Link text is resolved.</li>
      <li>Map attributes that cascade are made explicit on child elements.</li>
      <li>Map metadata such as index entries and copyrights are pushed into topics.</li>
      <li>Topic metadata such as navigation titles, link text and short descriptions are pulled from topics into the
        map.</li>
      <li>XML comments are removed.</li>
    </ul>
    <section id="applications">
      <title>Applications</title>
      <p>Normalized output may be useful in situations where post-processing of DITA content is required, but the
        downstream systems are limited in their ability to resolve DITA references.</p></section>
    <section id="generating-normalized-dita-output">
      <title>Generating normalized DITA output</title>
      <p>Run the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command and set the value of the output <parmname>--format</parmname> option to
          <option>dita</option>:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve"><filepath conref="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/dita-cmd"/> <parmname>--input</parmname>=<varname>input-file</varname> <parmname>--format</parmname>=<option>dita</option></codeblock>
      <p>where:</p>
      <ul>
        <li conref="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/novice-variables-1"
          conrefend="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/novice-variables-2"/>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
