<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="globalization-support">
  <title>Globalization support</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Globalization support</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit offers globalization support in the following areas: generated text, index sorting, and
    bi-directional text.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>dir</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>index:lang</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm>languages<indexterm>index sorting</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>languages<indexterm>right-to-left</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>languages<indexterm>bi-directional</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>English</indexterm>
        <indexterm>strings</indexterm>
        <indexterm>index<indexterm>sorting</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>bi-directional languages</indexterm>
        <indexterm>generated text</indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS<indexterm>bi-directional languages</indexterm><indexterm>right-to-left languages</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Generated text</dt>
          <dd><term>Generated text</term> is text that is rendered automatically in the output that is generated by
            DITA-OT; this text is not located in the DITA source files. The following are examples of generated text:
            <ul>
              <li>The word "Chapter" in a PDF file.</li>
              <li>The phrases "Related concepts," "Related tasks," and "Related reference" in HTML output.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Index sorting</dt>
          <dd>DITA-OT can use only a single language to sort indexes.<draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein"
              time="11 August 2012">What does the ICU for Java provide? Does index sorting occur if ICU for Java is NOT
              installed?</draft-comment></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Bi-directional text</dt>
          <dd>DITA-OT contains style sheets (CSS files) that support both left-to-right (LTR) and right-to-left (RTL)
            languages in HTML based transformations. PDF supports both LTR and RTL rendering based on the document
            language. The <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute can be used to override the default rendering direction.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>When DITA-OT generates output, it takes the first value for the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute that it
      encounters, and then it uses that value to create generated text, perform index sorting, and determine which
      default CSS file is used. If no value for the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute is found, the toolkit defaults
      to U.S. English. You can use the <xref href="../parameters/configuration-properties.dita"
        >configuration.properties</xref> to change the default language.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
