<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="custom-html-plugin-bundle-css">
  <title>Bundling CSS in a custom HTML plug-in</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Bundling custom CSS</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>You can create a DITA-OT plug-in that provides a custom stylesheet with the typography and colors that
    define your corporate identity. Coworkers can install this plug-in to ensure consistent HTML output across projects
    without having to copy the stylesheet to each project.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>require</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML<indexterm>custom plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML<indexterm>CSS</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS<indexterm>HTML transforms</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>This scenario walks through the process of creating a very simple plug-in
          (<codeph>com.example.html5-custom-css</codeph>) that creates a new transformation type:
          <option>html5-custom-css</option>. </p>
      <p>The <option>html5-custom-css</option> transformation includes a custom CSS file and sets four parameters to
        integrate the custom stylesheet in the generated HTML5 output. These parameter settings make the following
        changes:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Specify the <filepath>css</filepath> subfolder of the plug-in as the source directory for custom CSS with
              <parmname>args.cssroot</parmname>.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Specify the name of the custom CSS file with <parmname>args.css</parmname>.</p>
          <p>The value of this parameter tells DITA-OT to use the <filepath>custom.css</filepath> file provided by the
            plug-in.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Ensure that the CSS file is copied to the output directory by setting <parmname>args.copycss</parmname> to
              <option>yes</option>.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Set the destination path for CSS files in the output folder with <parmname>args.csspath</parmname>.</p>
          <p>CSS files are copied to the root level of the output folder by default. Setting this parameter places CSS
            files in a dedicated <filepath>css</filepath> subfolder.</p></li>
      </ul>
      <p>All four parameters are set in the Ant script (<filepath>build_html5-custom-css.xml</filepath>).</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <filepath>plugins</filepath> directory, create a directory named
            <filepath>com.example.html5-custom-css</filepath>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the new <filepath>com.example.html5-custom-css</filepath> directory, create a plug-in configuration file
            (<filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>) that declares the new <option>html5-custom-css</option> transformation and
          its dependencies.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <fig>
            <title>Sample <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file</title>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"><coderef href="../samples/plugins/com.example.html5-custom-css/plugin.xml"/></codeblock>
          </fig>
          <note>This plug-in will extend the default HTML5 transformation, so the <xmlelement>require</xmlelement>
            element explicitly defines <filepath>org.dita.html5</filepath> as a dependency.</note>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <filepath>com.example.html5-custom-css</filepath> directory, create a subdirectory named
            <filepath>css</filepath>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the new <filepath>css</filepath> subdirectory, create a file named <filepath>custom.css</filepath> with
          your custom CSS rules.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <fig>
            <title>Sample <filepath>custom.css</filepath> file</title>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-css normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"><coderef href="../samples/plugins/com.example.html5-custom-css/css/custom.css"/></codeblock>
          </fig>
          <note type="tip">When you first create the plug-in, you may want to include a rule in your custom stylesheet
            that makes it readily apparent when the custom styles are applied (the example above will change body text
            to “red”). Once you have verified that the plug-in works as intended, replace the placeholder rule with your
            own custom styles.</note>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <filepath>com.example.html5-custom-css</filepath> root directory, add an Ant script
            (<filepath>build_html5-custom-css.xml</filepath>) to define the transformation type.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <fig>
            <title>Sample build file: <filepath>build_html5-custom-css.xml</filepath></title>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"><coderef href="../samples/plugins/com.example.html5-custom-css/build_html5-custom-css.xml"/></codeblock>
          </fig>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <note type="tip">The files for this sample plug-in are included in the DITA-OT installation directory under
          <filepath>docsrc/samples/plugins/com.example.html5-custom-css/</filepath> and on
        <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/tree/develop/samples/plugins/com.example.html5-custom-css"
          format="html" scope="external">GitHub</xref>.</note>
      <p>The plug-in directory has the following layout and files:</p>
      <codeblock>com.example.html5-custom-css
├── build_html5-custom-css.xml
├── css
│   └── custom.css
└── plugin.xml</codeblock>
    </result>
    <postreq>
      <ol>
        <li>Run <filepath conref="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/dita-cmd"/>
          <parmname>--install</parmname> to install the plug-in and make the <option>html5-custom-css</option>
          transformation available.</li>
        <li>Build output with the new transformation type to verify that the plug-in works as intended.
          <codeblock><filepath conref="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/dita-cmd"/> <parmname>--input</parmname>=<varname>my.ditamap</varname> <parmname>--format</parmname>=<option>html5-custom-css</option></codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>Refine the styles in your <filepath>custom.css</filepath> file as necessary.</li>
      </ol>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
