<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="custom-html-navigation">
  <title>Adding navigation to topics</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Adding navigation</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>In HTML5 output, you can set a parameter to include table-of-contents navigation in the
      <xmlelement>nav</xmlelement> element of each page. The navigation can be rendered in a sidebar or menu via
    CSS.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>nav</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML5<indexterm>navigation, adding</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>transformations<indexterm>HTML5</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS<indexterm>adding custom</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>nav-toc</indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML5<indexterm>nav-toc</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>table of contents<indexterm>HTML5</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>table of contents<indexterm>nav-toc</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>Earlier versions of DITA-OT used the TocJS transformation to render a JavaScript-based table of contents in an
        XHTML frameset for topic navigation. While this approach is still supported for XHTML output, recent toolkit
        versions provide a modern HTML5 navigation alternative.</p>
      <p>As of DITA-OT 2.2, the <parmname>nav-toc</parmname> parameter can be used in HTML5 transformations to embed
        navigation directly in topics using native HTML5 elements without JavaScript or framesets.</p></context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the <parmname>nav-toc</parmname> parameter to one of the following options:</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice>The <option>partial</option> option creates a table of contents with the portion of the navigation
            hierarchy that contains the current topic (along with its parents, siblings and children).</choice>
          <choice>The <option>full</option> option embeds the complete navigation for the entire map in each
            topic.</choice>
        </choices>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>Add custom CSS rules to style the navigation.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>For example, the DITA-OT documentation stylesheet includes the following rules to place the table of
            contents on the left side of the browser viewport and highlight the current topic in bold:</p>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-css normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"><coderef href="../resources/dita-ot-doc.css#token=nav-coderef,end-nav-ref"/></codeblock>
          </p>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <note type="tip">For an example of HTML output generated using this method, see the HTML5 version of the DITA-OT
        documentation included in the installation folder under <filepath>doc/index.html</filepath>.</note>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
