<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<topic id="implement-saxon-customizations">
  <title>Adding Saxon customizations</title>
  <shortdesc>Plug-ins can contribute XSLT extension functions and collation URI resolvers. These customizations are
    automatically configured to work with Saxon when transformations are run using the DITA-OT
      <xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement> task with custom XSLT.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Saxon<indexterm><xmlelement>service</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Ant<indexterm><xmlelement>jar</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Ant<indexterm><xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Ant<indexterm><xmlelement>xslt</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Saxon<index-see-also>Ant</index-see-also></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Ant<index-see-also>Saxon</index-see-also></indexterm>
        <indexterm>I18N<indexterm>plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>plug-ins<indexterm start="plugins-saxon">Saxon</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>Saxon</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>preprocessing<indexterm>extension points, Saxon</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Java<indexterm>ServiceLoader</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Plug-ins can provide the following Saxon extensions:
      <ul>
        <li>Extension functions</li>
        <li>Collation URI resolvers</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Extensions are declared in plug-in-provided JAR files using the Java ServiceLoader feature that looks for
      service-declaring files in JAR files and loads classes. This requires adding one or more files in the
        <filepath>META-INF/services</filepath> directory in plug-in-provided JAR files.</p>
    <p>You can create the file manually or generate it dynamically using <xmlelement>service</xmlelement> elements in
      Ant <xmlelement>jar</xmlelement> tasks. See the topics for the different extension types for details.</p>
    <p>These extensions use the DITA Open Toolkit Ant <xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement> element to wrap
        <xmlelement>xslt</xmlelement> elements. You can do this in plug-ins as shown in this excerpt from the DITA
      Community I18N plugin’s <filepath>build.xml</filepath>
      file:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;target name="org.dita-community.i18n-saxon-extension-test">
  &lt;pipeline message="Test the DITA Community i18n Saxon extension functions"
            taskname="i18n-extension-function-test">
    &lt;xslt
      in="${dita.plugin.org.dita-community.i18n.dir}/test/xsl/data/test-data.xml"
      style="${dita.plugin.org.dita-community.i18n.dir}/test/xsl/test-extension-functions.xsl"
      out="${basedir}/out/extension-function-test-results.xml"
      >

    &lt;/xslt>
  &lt;/pipeline>
&lt;/target></codeblock></p>
    <p>Normal XSLT extensions to built-in transformation types will automatically have the extensions available to
      them.</p>
    <p>The dynamic Saxon configuration is implemented in the class <codeph>org.dita.dost.module.XsltModule</codeph>,
      which backs the <xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement>/<xmlelement>xslt</xmlelement> element.</p>
    <p> </p>
  </body>
</topic>
