<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<topic id="lwdita-input">
  <title>Preview support for Lightweight DITA</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Lightweight DITA</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>DITA-OT provides preview support for the authoring formats proposed for
    <xref keyref="lwdita"/>, or “<term>LwDITA</term>”. The XDITA, MDITA and HDITA formats are alternative
    representations of DITA content in XML, Markdown and HTML5.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm>authoring formats<indexterm>Lightweight DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>Lightweight DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA 1.3<indexterm>Lightweight DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <body>
    <note type="attention">Since
      <xref keyref="lwdita"/> has not yet been released as a formal specification, the implementation for XDITA, MDITA
      and HDITA authoring formats is subject to change. Future versions of DITA Open Toolkit will be updated as LwDITA
      evolves.</note>
    <section>
      <title>XDITA</title>
      <p>XDITA is the LwDITA authoring format that uses XML to structure information. XDITA is a subset of DITA, with
        new multimedia element types added to support interoperability with HTML5. XDITA is designed for users who want
        to write DITA content but who do not want (or need) the full power of DITA.</p>
      <p>The XDITA parser included in the <codeph>org.lwdita</codeph> plug-in provides preliminary support for XDITA
        maps and XDITA topics.</p>
      <p>To apply XDITA-specific processing to topics in an XDITA map or a full DITA 1.3 map, set the
          <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute on a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> to <codeph>xdita</codeph>:</p>
      <p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;map>
  &lt;topicref href="xdita-topic.xml" <b>format="xdita"</b>/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      </p>
      <note type="tip">For examples of cross-format content sharing between topics in XDITA, HDITA, extended-profile
        MDITA, and DITA 1.3, see the LwDITA sample files in the DITA-OT installation directory under
          <filepath>plugins/org.oasis-open.xdita.v0_2_2/samples</filepath>.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>MDITA</title>
      <p>MDITA is the LwDITA authoring format based on Markdown. It is designed for users who want to write structured
        content with the minimum of overhead, but who also want to take advantage of the reuse mechanisms associated
        with the DITA standard and the multi-channel publishing afforded by standard DITA tooling.</p>
      <p>Recent proposals for LwDITA include two profiles for authoring MDITA topics:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The “<term>Core profile</term>” is based on
          <xref keyref="gfm-spec"/> and includes elements that are common to many other Markdown implementations.</li>
        <li>The “<term>Extended profile</term>” borrows additional features from other flavors of Markdown to represent
          a broader range of DITA content with existing plain-text syntax conventions.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The Markdown DITA parser included in the <codeph>org.lwdita</codeph> plug-in provides preliminary support for
        these profiles and additional Markdown constructs as described in the syntax reference.</p>
      <p>To apply LwDITA-specific processing to Markdown topics, set the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute to
          <codeph>mdita</codeph>:</p>
      <p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;map>
  &lt;topicref href="mdita-topic.md" <b>format="mdita"</b>/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      </p>
      <p>In this case, the first paragraph in the topic will be treated as a short description, for example, and
        additional metadata can be specified for the topic via a YAML front matter block.</p>
      <note>Setting the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute to <codeph>mdita</codeph> triggers stricter parsing than the
        more lenient document parsing approach that is applied to <codeph>markdown</codeph> documents.</note>
      <note type="attention">The MDITA map format is not yet supported. To include Markdown content in publications, use
        an XDITA map or a DITA 1.3 map.</note>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>HDITA</title>
      <p>HDITA is the LwDITA authoring format based on HTML5, which is intended to support structured content authoring
        with tools designed for HTML authoring. HDITA also uses custom data attributes to provide interoperability with
        DITA.</p>
      <p>The HDITA parser included in the <codeph>org.lwdita</codeph> plug-in provides preliminary support for these
        constructs.</p>
      <p>To apply LwDITA-specific processing to HTML topics, set the <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute to
          <codeph>hdita</codeph>:</p>
      <p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;map>
  &lt;topicref href="hdita-topic.html" <b>format="hdita"</b>/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      </p>
      <note type="attention">The HDITA map format is not yet supported. To include HDITA content, use an XDITA map or a
        DITA 1.3 map.</note>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
