<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID" rev="1.6">

  <title>Migrating to release 1.6</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>To 1.6</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 1.6, various <filepath>demo</filepath> plug-ins were removed along with many deprecated
    properties, targets, templates and modes. The PDF2 transformation no longer supports the beta version of DITA from
    IBM, the "bkinfo" demo plug-in, or <filepath>layout-masters.xml</filepath> configuration.</shortdesc>
  
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><filepath>demo</filepath> folder</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>workdir</codeph> processing instruction</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>workdir</codeph> processing instruction</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm>topic pull templates, list of</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm>"bkinfo" demo plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><filepath>layout-masters.xml</filepath></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm>PDF2 templates, list of</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm>XHTML templates, list of</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm>ODT templates, list of</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>Support for the old DITAVAL format (used before OASIS added DITAVAL to the standard in 2007) has been
        removed.</p>
      <p>The <filepath>demo</filepath> folder has been deprecated and the following plug-ins have been moved to the
          <filepath>plugins</filepath> folder:</p>
      <table outputclass="table-hover" frame="none" colsep="0" rowsep="1">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>old path</entry>
              <entry>new path</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><filepath>demo/dita11</filepath></entry>
              <entry><filepath>plugins/org.dita.specialization.dita11</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><filepath>demo/dita132</filepath></entry>
              <entry><filepath>plugins/org.dita.specialization.dita132</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><filepath>demo/eclipsemap</filepath></entry>
              <entry><filepath>plugins/org.dita.specialization.eclipsemap</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><filepath>demo/fo</filepath></entry>
              <entry><filepath>plugins/org.dita.pdf2</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><filepath>demo/tocjs</filepath></entry>
              <entry><filepath>plugins/com.sophos.tocjs</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <!-- These plugins are pulled from ext-plugins during build -->
            <row>
              <entry><filepath>demo/h2d</filepath></entry>
              <entry><filepath>plugins/h2d</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><filepath>demo/legacypdf</filepath></entry>
              <entry><filepath>plugins/legacypdf</filepath></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>The remaining plug-ins in the demo folder have been moved to a separate repository at <xref
          href="https://github.com/dita-ot/ext-plugins" scope="external" format="html"
          >github.com/dita-ot/ext-plugins</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>The deprecated property <codeph>dita.input.valfile</codeph> should be replaced with the new argument property
          <codeph>args.filter</codeph>.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>dita-preprocess</codeph> target has been removed and dependencies should be replaced with a target
        sequence <codeph>build-init, preprocess</codeph>.</p>
      <p>Support for the <codeph>args.message.file</codeph> argument has been removed as message configuration has
        become static configuration.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>workdir</codeph> processing instruction has been deprecated in favor of
          <codeph>workdir-uri</codeph>. The only difference between the two processing instructions is that
          <codeph>workdir-uri</codeph> contains a URI instead of a system path.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Preprocessing</title>
      <p>The following deprecated templates and modes have been removed in topic pull stylesheets:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>inherit</li>
        <li>get-stuff</li>
        <li>verify-type-attribute</li>
        <li>classval</li>
        <li>getshortdesc</li>
        <li>getlinktext</li>
        <li>blocktext</li>
        <li>figtext</li>
        <li>tabletext</li>
        <li>litext</li>
        <li>fntext</li>
        <li>dlentrytext</li>
        <li>firstclass</li>
        <li>invalid-list-item</li>
        <li>xref</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>PDF2</title>
      <p>The following deprecated items are no longer supported in the PDF transform:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Support for the beta version of DITA, available from IBM before the OASIS standard was created in 2005.</li>
        <li>Support for the "bkinfo" demo plug-in, used to support book metadata before OASIS created the BookMap format
          in 2007.</li>
        <li>Support for <filepath>layout-masters.xml</filepath> configuration. Plug-ins should use the
            <codeph>createDefaultLayoutMasters</codeph> template instead.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The following extension-points have been added:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>dita.conductor.pdf2.param</codeph> to add XSLT parameters to XSL FO transformation.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Custom PDF2 shell stylesheets need to be revised to not include separate IBM and OASIS DITA stylesheets. The
            <filepath><varname>*</varname>_1.0.xsl</filepath> stylesheets have been removed and their imports must be
        removed from shell stylesheets.</p>
      <p>The following template modes have been deprecated:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>toc-prefix-text</li>
        <li>toc-topic-text</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The following named templates have been removed:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>processTopic</li>
        <li>createMiniToc</li>
        <li>processTopicTitle</li>
        <li>createTopicAttrsName</li>
        <li>processConcept</li>
        <li>processReference</li>
        <li>getTitle</li>
        <li>placeNoteContent</li>
        <li>placeImage</li>
        <li>processUnknowType</li>
        <li>insertReferenceTitle</li>
        <li>buildRelationships</li>
        <li>processTask</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The main FO generation process now relies on the merging process to rewrite duplicate IDs. The default merging
        process did this already in previous releases, but now also custom merging processes must fulfill the duplicate
        ID rewrite requirement.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>XHTML</title>
      <p>The following named templates have been deprecated:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>make-index-ref</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The following deprecated templates have been removed:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>revblock-deprecated</li>
        <li>revstyle-deprecated</li>
        <li>start-revision-flag-deprecated</li>
        <li>end-revision-flag-deprecated</li>
        <li>concept-links</li>
        <li>task-links</li>
        <li>reference-links</li>
        <li>relinfo-links</li>
        <li>sort-links-by-role</li>
        <li>create-links</li>
        <li>add-linking-attributes</li>
        <li>add-link-target-attribute</li>
        <li>add-user-link-attributes</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The removed templates have been replaced by other templates in earlier releases and plug-ins should be changed
        to use the new templates.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>ODT</title>
      <p>The following deprecated templates have been removed:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>revblock-deprecated</li>
        <li>revstyle-deprecated</li>
        <li>start-revision-flag-deprecated</li>
        <li>end-revision-flag-deprecated</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The removed templates have been replaced by other templates in earlier releases and plug-ins should be changed
        to use the new templates.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
