<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="migrating-to-2.5">

  <title>Migrating to release 2.5</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>To 2.5</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 2.5, several frequently-overridden legacy style settings were removed from the default PDF
    plug-in. A separate plug-in can be used to restore the original settings.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>example</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>PDF<indexterm><codeph>org.dita.pdf2.legacy</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>languages<indexterm>right-to-left</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note>This topic provides a summary of changes in DITA-OT 2.5 that may require modifications to custom stylesheets
        or plug-ins. For more information on changes in this release, see the
        <xref keyref="2.5-release-notes"/>.</note>
    </section>
    <!--<section>
      <title>HTML5</title>
      <ul>
        <li/>
      </ul>
    </section>-->
    <section id="25-pdf-changes">
      <title>Default PDF style improvements</title>
      <div outputclass="div-index">
        <indexterm>tables<indexterm>indentation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </div>
      <p>Several legacy styles have been modified or removed in the default PDF plug-in <codeph>org.dita.pdf2</codeph>,
        including the following:</p>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>In task topics with only a single step, the step is now rendered as a simple block (rather than as a list
            item without a label).</li>
          <li>Table containers now inherit the initial indentation (<codeph>start-indent</codeph>) from the parent
            elements.</li>
          <li>Borders and indentation have been removed from <xmlelement>example</xmlelement> elements.</li>
          <li>Links are no longer italicized.</li>
          <li>Titles for related link lists have been standardized to use the <codeph>common.title</codeph> attribute
            set (which applies the <codeph>sans-serif</codeph> font-family) and bold font weight.</li>
          <li>Several remaining occurrences of left/right borders, margins, padding, and text alignment now use the
            corresponding start/end equivalents to better support right-to-left languages.</li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
    <section id="25-legacy-pdf-plugin">
      <title>External plug-in for legacy PDF styling</title>
      <p>If you have a custom PDF plug-in that explicitly depends on the previous default settings for the
        aforementioned styles, the <codeph>org.dita.pdf2.legacy</codeph> plug-in can be used to restore the pre–2.5
        styles.</p>
      <table outputclass="table-hover" frame="none" colsep="0" rowsep="1">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Plug-in </entry>
              <entry>Source code location</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>org.dita.pdf2.legacy</codeph></entry>
              <entry>
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/org.dita.pdf2.legacy" format="html" scope="external"/></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>To install the legacy PDF plug-in, run the following command:</p>
      <codeblock><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--install</parmname>=<filepath>https://github.com/dita-ot/org.dita.pdf2.legacy/archive/2.5.zip</filepath></codeblock>
      <note type="attention">Only install the legacy PDF plug-in if you have a custom PDF plug-in that requires the
        pre–2.5 styles. If your plug-in was designed for DITA-OT 2.4 and does not override these settings, there is no
        need to install the legacy PDF plug-in.</note>
    </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
