<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID" rev="1.7">

  <title>Migrating to release 1.7</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>To 1.7</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 1.7, a new preprocessing step implements flagging for HTML-based output formats. PDF processing
    was corrected with regard to <codeph>shortdesc</codeph> handling, and a new XSLT template mode was introduced for
    HTML TOC processing. Several stylesheets were moved to plug-in specific folders and deprecated properties and XSLT
    variables were removed. </shortdesc>
  
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>dita.input</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>dita.input.dirname</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>dita.extname</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm>XHTML, flagging-related templates</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>page-margin-left</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>page-margin-right</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>A new job status file <filepath>.job.xml</filepath> has been introduced and replaces
          <filepath>dita.list</filepath> and <filepath>dita.xml.properties</filepath> as the normative source for job
        status. If you have custom processing which modifies the job properties, you should change your code to modify
          <filepath>.job.xml</filepath> instead.</p>
      <p>Support for the following deprecated properties has been removed:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>dita.input</codeph></li>
        <li><codeph>dita.input.dirname</codeph></li>
        <li><codeph>dita.extname</codeph></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Stylesheets for the following transformation types have moved to plug-in specific folders:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><option>docbook</option></li>
        <li><option>eclipsecontent</option></li>
        <li><option>troff</option></li>
        <li><option>wordrtf</option></li>
      </ul>
      <p>If custom plug-ins have hard coded paths to these stylesheets, update references to use either
          <codeph>plugin</codeph> URIs in <codeph>xsl:import</codeph> instructions or use <codeph>dita.plugin.*</codeph>
        Ant properties.</p>
      <p>The integration process has been changed to use strict mode by default. For old plug-ins which are not valid,
          <keyword>lax</keyword> processing mode can still be used.</p>
      <p>Plug-ins that use the <codeph>MessageUtils</codeph> Java class must use <codeph>getInstance</codeph> method to
        access the <codeph>MessageUtils</codeph> instance, as <codeph>getMessage</codeph> methods have been changed to
        instance methods.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Preprocessing</title>
      <p>The preprocessing Ant dependency chain has been cleaned up. Tasks no longer depend on the previous task in the
        default chain, but rather the whole preprocess dependency chain is defined by the <codeph>preprocess</codeph>
        task.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HTML</title>
      <p>Core TOC generation has been moved to a separate XSLT stylesheet
          <filepath>xsl/map2htmtoc/map2htmlImpl.xsl</filepath> and the new templates use the mode <codeph>toc</codeph>.
        Plug-ins which override HTML TOC processing should change the map processing templates to <codeph>toc</codeph>
        mode.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HTML and extended transformation types</title>
      <p>Flagging logic has been pulled out of the core X/HTML code and moved to a preprocess step. This significantly
        simplifies and optimizes the X/HTML code, while making flagging logic available to any other transformation
        type. The new preprocess step implements all flagging logic; for each active flag, it adds a DITA-OT specific
        hint into the intermediate topics (implemented as a specialization of the DITA &lt;foreign&gt; element). As part
        of this change, all flagging-related templates in the XHTML code (such as start-flagit and gen-style) are
        deprecated.</p>
      <p>If you override the X/HTML transforms, you may need to update your overrides to use the new flagging logic. In
        most cases this just means deleting calls to the deprecated templates; in some cases, the calls can be replaced
        with 2 lines to process flags in new places. You should compare your override to the updated XHTML code and
        update as needed. See <xref keyref="flagging-migration"/> for details.</p>
      <p>Plug-ins that provide support for new transforms need to ensure that they properly support the DITA
        &lt;foreign&gt; element, which should be ignored by default; if so, this change will have no immediate impact.
        Support for flagging new transformation types may be more easily added based on this update, because there is no
        need to re-implement flagging logic, but this is not required. See <xref keyref="preprocess-flagging"/> for
        details on how to add flagging support.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>PDF</title>
      <p>The following deprecated XSLT variables have been removed:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>page-margin-left</codeph></li>
        <li><codeph>page-margin-right</codeph></li>
      </ul>
      <p>XSLT stylesheets have been split to separate specialization topic code and new <codeph>xsl:import</codeph>
        instructions have been added to <filepath>topic2fo.xsl</filepath>. Plug-ins which define their own shell
        stylesheet should be revised to import all the required stylesheet modules.</p>
      <p>PDF processing used to replace topic <codeph>shortdesc</codeph> with map <codeph>shortdesc</codeph>, but this
        behavior was incorrect and was removed to comply with the DITA specification.</p>
      <p>A new <codeph>#note-separator</codeph> variable string was added to facilitate customization.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
