<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="migrating-to-2.3">

  <title>Migrating to release 2.3</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>To 2.3</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 2.3, <option>HTML5</option> table processing has been refactored to use HTML5 best practices and
    improved CSS properties. In PDF output, table heads and key columns no longer include shading, and unused
    localization variables have been deprecated. The template for generated error messages has been updated to use a
    single <codeph>id</codeph> variable that contains the entire message ID.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>languages<indexterm>supported</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Chinese</indexterm>
        <indexterm>English</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Indonesian</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Korean</indexterm>
        <indexterm>I18N<indexterm>PDF processing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>chunking, effect of</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>tables<indexterm>HTML5</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>tables<indexterm>PDF</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note>This topic provides a summary of changes in DITA-OT 2.3 that may require modifications to custom stylesheets
        or plug-ins. For more information on changes in this release, see the <xref keyref="2.3-release-notes"/>.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HTML5</title>
      <p>The <option>HTML5</option> table processing has been refactored to use valid HTML5 markup, HTML5 best
        practices, and better CSS properties for styling. <xref href="https://en.bem.info/methodology/" format="html"
          scope="external">BEM</xref>-style CSS classes are now generated with the name of the containing element, the
        name of the attribute, and the value of the attribute. </p>
      <p>Common CSS files are now generated using separate modules for each DITA domain, implemented as <xref
          keyref="sass-lang"/> partials to better support extensions with CSS frameworks, custom plug-ins and future
        toolkit versions.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HTML-based formats</title>
      <div outputclass="div-index">
        <indexterm><xmlelement>div</xmlelement><indexterm><codeph>div.shortdesc</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>p</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>properties</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>choicetable</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>tm-area</codeph> named template</indexterm></indexterm>
      </div>
      <p>The XSLT <codeph>tm-area</codeph> named template, which used to toggle rendering of trademark symbols in US
        English and Asian languages (Japanese, Korean, and both Chinese) but ignore them in all other languages, has
        been deprecated. Trademark symbols are now rendered uniformly for all languages and the template will be removed
        in an upcoming release.</p>
      <p id="2191">In previous releases, short descriptions in <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> elements were rendered
        as division elements (<xmlelement>div</xmlelement>), rather than paragraphs (<xmlelement>p</xmlelement>).
        Processing has been revised to ensure that short descriptions are consistently rendered as paragraphs,
        regardless of whether they appear in <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> elements. Users who have previously
        implemented custom CSS rules to style <codeph>div.shortdesc</codeph> like paragraphs should be able to remove
        these rules.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>PDF</title>
      <div outputclass="div-index">
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>tm-area</codeph> named template</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm>PDF localization variables</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><parmname>conreffile</parmname></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><parmname>conref-check</parmname> target</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><parmname>coderef</parmname> target</indexterm></indexterm>
      </div>
      <p>The <codeph>antiquewhite</codeph> background color has been removed from table heads and key column contents in
          <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>properties</xmlelement> tables to synchronize
        presentation with <xmlelement>choicetable</xmlelement> and provide a more uniform customization baseline between
        PDF output and HTML-based formats.</p>
      <p id="2179">PDF: The I18N Java and XSLT processing code has been merged into single task. This eliminated the
        need for a <filepath>stage3.fo</filepath> file in the temporary directory; instead,
          <filepath>topic.fo</filepath> is generated directly from <filepath>stage2.fo</filepath>. If custom plug-ins
        were implemented to handle <filepath>stage3.fo</filepath>, they would need to be updated. </p>
      <p>Localization variables that are no longer used in PDF processing have been deprecated and will be removed in an
        upcoming release. PDF customization plug-ins that make use of these variables should plan to refactor
        accordingly:
        <ul>
          <li>Back button title</li>
          <li>Contents button title</li>
          <li>Forward button title</li>
          <li>Index button title</li>
          <li>Index multiple entries separator</li>
          <li>Main page button title</li>
          <li>Next page button title</li>
          <li>Online help prefix</li>
          <li>Online Help Search Method And</li>
          <li>Online Help Search Method Field</li>
          <li>Online Help Search Method Or</li>
          <li>Previous page button title</li>
          <li>Search button title</li>
          <li>Search Case Sensitive Switch</li>
          <li>Search Excluded Stop Words Message</li>
          <li>Search Highlight Switch</li>
          <li>Search index button title</li>
          <li>Search index field title</li>
          <li>Search index next button title</li>
          <li>Search Search Give No Results Message</li>
          <li>Search Search in Progress Message</li>
          <li>Search Stopped Message</li>
          <li>Search text button title</li>
          <li>Search text field title</li>
          <li>Search title</li>
          <li>Search Whole Words Switch</li>
          <li>Untitled section</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <note>Most of these variables were never used by the PDF process, and most were not supported (or localized) for
        any language other than English.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Deprecated properties and targets</title>
      <p>The following Ant properties have been deprecated:
        <ul>
          <li><parmname>conreffile</parmname></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p>The following preprocessing targets have been deprecated:
        <ul>
          <li><parmname>conref-check</parmname></li>
          <li><parmname>coderef</parmname></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Pre-processing</title>
      <p id="2207">The order of the <codeph>chunk</codeph> and <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph> pre-processing stages
        has been switched so that <codeph>chunk</codeph> comes first. This ensures that metadata is properly pulled or
        pushed into the chunked version of DITA topics. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Generating error messages</title>
      <p>Previously, the XSLT <codeph>output-message</codeph> named template for generating error messages combined a
        global variable and two parameters to determine the actual message ID. This function has been updated to use a
        single <codeph>id</codeph> variable that contains the entire message ID.</p>
      <p>Plug-ins that make use of the <codeph>output-message</codeph> function should be updated to use the single
          <codeph>id</codeph> variable, as
        in:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;xsl:call-template name="output-message">
  &lt;xsl:with-param name="id" select="'FULLMESSAGENUMBER'"/>
  &lt;xsl:with-param name="msgparams">optional-message-parameters&lt;/xsl:with-param>
&lt;/xsl:call-template></codeblock>
      </p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
