<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="migrating-to-2.2">

  <title>Migrating to release 2.2</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>To 2.2</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 2.2, the <option>HTML5</option> transformation was refactored as its own plug-in and separate
    plug-ins were created for each of the rendering engine-specific PDF transformations.<draft-comment author="staylor">
      There are likely other changes that should be noted here. </draft-comment>
  </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>toc</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>preface</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>frontmatter</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>.notetitle</codeph> classes</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><parmname>user.input.file</parmname></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><parmname>user.input.dir</parmname></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><parmname>InputMapDir</parmname></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>RenderX<indexterm>plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Antenna House<indexterm>plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Apache FOP<indexterm>plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>table of contents<indexterm>PDF</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note>This topic provides a summary of changes in DITA-OT 2.2 that may require modifications to custom stylesheets
        or plug-ins. For more information on changes in this release, see the <xref keyref="2.2-release-notes"/>.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HTML5</title>
      <p>The <option>HTML5</option> transformation introduced in release 2.0 as part of the <option>XHTML</option>
        plug-in has been moved to a separate <option>HTML5</option> plug-in. Customizations that extended the previous
        HTML5 output under the <option>XHTML</option> plug-in will probably need to be refactored on the new HTML5
        plug-in.</p>
      <p>Note title processing has been revised to use a common <codeph>note__title</codeph> class for note elements of
        all types. The legacy <codeph><varname>{$type}</varname>title</codeph> classes (such as
          <codeph>.notetitle</codeph>, <codeph>.cautiontitle</codeph>, <codeph>.tiptitle</codeph>, etc.) are included
        for backwards compatibility, but are deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming release. Stylesheets that
        apply formatting overrides to note titles should be revised to replace the deprecated class selectors with the
        equivalent descendant selectors, for example <codeph>.note_note .note__title</codeph>, <codeph>.note_caution
          .note__title</codeph>, <codeph>.note_tip .note__title</codeph>, etc.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>PDF</title>
      <p>Processing specific to Apache FOP, Antenna House Formatter, and RenderX XEP has been separated into separate
        plug-ins for each of those rendering engines. Customizations that extended this processing might need to extend
        the new <codeph>org.dita.pdf2.fop</codeph>, <codeph>org.dita.pdf2.axf</codeph>, or
          <codeph>org.dita.pdf2.xep</codeph> plug-ins.</p>
      <p>PDF customizations that are not specific to a rendering engine can continue to extend the
          <codeph>org.dita.pdf2</codeph> plug-in as before.</p>
      <p>The default format for page numbers in the table of contents (<xmlelement>toc</xmlelement>) was switched to
        roman to align with <xmlelement>preface</xmlelement> and ensure consistent numbering styles for all
          <xmlelement>frontmatter</xmlelement> components in <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement>. This prevents numbering
        from switching back and forth between styles in bookmaps where the Preface follows the table of contents.
        Earlier versions of DITA-OT produced numbering sequences like <codeph>1,2,3,4,v,vi,7,8</codeph> in this use
        case.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Deprecated properties</title>
      <p>The following Ant properties have been deprecated:
        <ul>
          <li><parmname>user.input.file</parmname>, use <parmname>user.input.file.uri</parmname> instead to specify the
            input file system path</li>
          <li><parmname>user.input.dir</parmname>, use <parmname>user.input.dir.uri</parmname> instead to specify the
            input directory system path</li>
          <li><parmname>InputMapDir</parmname>, use <parmname>InputMapDir.uri</parmname> instead to specify the input
            map directory system path</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
