<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<topic id="variable_overrides_the_common_vars_folder">
  <title>Variable overrides</title>
  <shortdesc>The <filepath>common/vars</filepath> folder houses custom variable definitions that override the standard
    definitions in <filepath>org.dita.pdf2/cfg/common/vars</filepath>. </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>variable</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>param</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>id</xmlatt><indexterm>variables, overriding</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>languages<indexterm>adding support for</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>languages<indexterm>ISO 639-1</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>ISO 639-1</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>As with index configuration, each file contains data for a single language, and should take that language’s ISO
      639-1 language designator as its name.</p>
    <p>Variable files contain a set of <xmlelement>variable</xmlelement> elements, identified by their
        <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute. The variable definitions are used to store static text that is used as part of
      the published outputs. For example, page headers, hyperlinks, etc. The id attribute for each variable should make
      it clear how the variable text is being used.</p>
    <p>Some variables contain <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> elements which indicate parameter values that are
      substituted at publish time by the XSL. For example, a page number that is being generated as part of the
      publishing process might be identified by &amp;lt;param ref-name="number"/&amp;gt; When editing or translating a
      variable file, these should be included in the translation, though they can be moved and rearranged within the
        <xmlelement>variable</xmlelement> content as needed.</p>
    <p>The best way to start editing a custom variables file is by making a copy of the original from
        <filepath>org.dita.pdf2/cfg/common/vars</filepath> and making changes as desired. When adding a new language,
      start from an existing language’s list of variables and translate each entry as needed.</p>
    <p>Note that unchanged <xmlelement>variable</xmlelement> elements can be omitted: the custom variables file need
      only include those <xmlelement>variable</xmlelement> elements which you have modified. Variables not found in the
      custom file will are taken from the standard variable files.</p>
    <p>Applying a custom variable does not require modifying the <filepath>catalog.xml</filepath> file. The publishing
      process will automatically use any custom variables definitions in place of the original ones.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
