<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="plugin-javalib" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Adding a Java library to the DITA-OT <parmname>classpath</parmname></title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Adding a Java library to the <parmname>classpath</parmname></navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>You can use the <codeph>dita.conductor.lib.import</codeph> extension point to add an additional Java
    library to the DITA-OT <parmname>classpath</parmname> parameter.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>dost.class.path</codeph> property</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>plug-ins<indexterm>Java</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Java<indexterm>classpath</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>classpath<indexterm>Java</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>Java</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>As of DITA-OT 3.1, the Java class path is managed automatically, meaning you do not (and should not) use
        explicit references to Java class paths in your build scripts. In particular, the old
          <codeph>dost.class.path</codeph> property has been deprecated and should not be used. If you are migrating
        older plug-ins that manage their class path directly, you should remove any explicit class path configuration.
        If your plug-in was not already using the <codeph>dita.conductor.lib.import</codeph> extension point to
        integrate its JAR dependencies you must add it.</p>
      <p>The effective DITA-OT class path is the combination of the JAR files in the main <filepath>lib/</filepath>
        directory and the plug-in-contributed JARs, which are listed in <filepath>config/env.sh</filepath>. The
          <filepath>env.sh</filepath> file is updated automatically when plug-ins are installed or removed.</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>If necessary, compile the Java code into a JAR file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file that contains the following code:</cmd>
        <info><codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;plugin id="<varname>plugin-id</varname>">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.lib.import" file="<varname>file</varname>"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>where:
          <ul>
            <li><varname>plugin-id</varname> is the plug-in identifier, for example,
              <codeph>com.example.addjar</codeph>.</li>
            <li><varname>file</varname> is the name of the JAR file, for example,
              <filepath>myJavaLibrary.jar</filepath>. </li>
          </ul></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Install the plug-in.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>The Ant or XSLT code now can make use of the Java code.</result>
    <example>
      <p>In the following extended example, the <filepath>myJavaLibrary.jar</filepath> file performs a validation step
        during processing, and you want it to run immediately before the <codeph>conref </codeph>step.</p>
      <p>To accomplish this, you will need to use several features:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The JAR file must be added to the classpath.</li>
        <li>The Ant target must be added to the dependency chain for conref.</li>
        <li>An Ant target must be created that uses this class, and integrated into the code.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The files might look like the following:</p>
      <fig>
        <title><filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;plugin id="com.example.samplejava">
  <i>&lt;!-- Add the JAR file to the DITA-OT CLASSPATH --></i>
  <b>&lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.lib.import" 
           file="com.example.sampleValidation.jar"/></b>
  <i>&lt;!-- Integrate the Ant code --></i>
  &lt;feature extension="ant.import" file="calljava-antcode.xml"/>
  <i>&lt;!-- Define the Ant target to call, and when (before conref) --></i>
  &lt;feature extension="depend.preprocess.conref.pre" 
           value="validateWithJava"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title><filepath>calljava-antcode.xml</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;project default="validateWithJava">
  &lt;target name="validateWithJava">
    &lt;java classname="com.example.sampleValidation">
      &lt;!-- The class was added to the DITA-OT classpath -->
    &lt;/java>
  &lt;/target>
&lt;/project></codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
  </taskbody>
</task>
