<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="prerequisite-software">
  <title>Prerequisite software</title>
  <shortdesc>The prerequisite software that DITA-OT requires depends on the types of transformations that you want to
    use.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>RenderX<indexterm>XSL-FO processor</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Antenna House<indexterm>XSL-FO processor</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Apache FOP<indexterm>XSL-FO processor</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>installing<indexterm>prerequisites</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>processor</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>2.0</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Saxon<indexterm>version</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Java<indexterm>Java Development Kit (JDK)</indexterm><indexterm>Java Runtime Environment (JRE)</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSL-FO processor<index-see>Antenna House</index-see><index-see>RenderX</index-see><index-see>Apache FOP</index-see></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Software required for core DITA-OT processing</title>
      <p>DITA-OT requires the following software applications:
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Java Runtime Environment (JRE) or Java Development Kit (JDK)</dt>
            <dd>
              <p conkeyref="reusable-components/java-clients"/>
              <note>This is the <i>only</i> prerequisite software that you need to install. The remaining required
                software is included in the distribution package.</note>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="antbuild">
            <dt>Apache Ant</dt>
            <dd>Provides the standard setup and sequencing of processing steps. DITA-OT includes Ant version <keyword
                keyref="tool.ant.version"/>. You can download Ant from <xref keyref="download.ant"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>XSLT processor</dt>
            <dd>Provides the main transformation services. It must be compliant with XSLT 2.0. DITA-OT includes Saxon
              version <keyword keyref="tool.saxon.version"/>. You can download Saxon from <xref keyref="download.saxon"
              />.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Software required for specific transformations</title>
      <div outputclass="div-index">
        <indexterm>locale</indexterm>
      </div>
      <p>Depending on the type of output that you want to generate, you might need the following applications:
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>ICU for Java</dt>
            <dd><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="11 August 2012">Does the DITA-OT only use ICU for
                Java for index processing? Index processing is what is explicitly mentioned in the installing
                topics.</draft-comment>ICU for Java is a cross-platform, Unicode-based, globalization library. It
              includes support for comparing locale-sensitive strings; formatting dates, times, numbers, currencies, and
              messages; detecting text boundaries; and converting character sets. You can download ICU for Java from
                <xref keyref="download.icu4j"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Microsoft Help Workshop</dt>
            <dd>Required for generating HTML help. You can download the Help Workshop from <xref
                keyref="download.html-help-workshop"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>XSL-FO processor</dt>
            <dd>Required for generating PDF output. <tm tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP (Formatting Objects Processor) is
              included in the distribution package. You can download other versions from <xref keyref="download.fop"/>.
              You can also use commercial FO processors such as Antenna House Formatter or RenderX XEP.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
