<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="rebuilding-docs">
  <title>Rebuilding the DITA-OT documentation</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Rebuilding documentation</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>DITA-OT ships with a <keyword keyref="gradle"/> build script that enables you to rebuild the toolkit
    documentation. This is especially helpful if your environment contains plug-ins that add new extension points,
    messages, or parameters to the toolkit.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>macOS<indexterm>gradle</indexterm><indexterm>rebuilding documentation</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Linux<indexterm>gradle</indexterm><indexterm>rebuilding documentation</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Windows<indexterm>gradlew</indexterm><indexterm>rebuilding documentation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>The documentation build script reads the toolkit’s plug-in configuration and automatically regenerates topics
        and properties file templates based on the extension points, messages, and parameters provided by the installed
        plug-ins.</p>
      <note type="attention">If you have installed new plug-ins, you may need to add the corresponding generated topics
        to the DITA maps to include the new information in the output.</note></context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Change to the <filepath>docsrc/</filepath> subdirectory of the DITA-OT installation.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run one of the following commands.</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice platform="linux mac">On Linux and macOS:
            <codeblock>./gradlew <varname>target</varname></codeblock></choice>
          <choice platform="windows">On Windows: <codeblock>gradlew <varname>target</varname></codeblock></choice>
        </choices>
        <info>
          <p>The <varname>target</varname> parameter is optional and specifies a transformation type. It takes the
            following values:
            <ul>
              <li><option>html</option></li>
              <li><option>htmlhelp</option></li>
              <li><option>pdf</option></li>
            </ul>
          </p>
          <p>If you do not specify a target, HTML5 and PDF output is generated.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
