<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<topic id="reducing-processing-time" xml:lang="en-US">
   <title>Reducing processing time</title>
   <shortdesc>Several configuration changes can significantly reduce DITA-OT processing time.</shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <metadata>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm><xmlatt>xtrf</xmlatt></indexterm>
            <indexterm><xmlatt>xtrc</xmlatt></indexterm>
            <indexterm>processing time</indexterm>
            <indexterm>Java<indexterm>required version</indexterm></indexterm>
            <indexterm>debugging<indexterm>generate-debug-attributes</indexterm></indexterm>
         </keywords>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <body>
      <section>
         <title>Disable debug attribute generation</title>
         <p>The <parmname>generate-debug-attributes</parmname> parameter determines whether debugging attributes are
            generated in the temporary files. By changing the value to <codeph>false</codeph>, DITA-OT will no longer
            generate the <xmlatt>xtrf</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>xtrc</xmlatt> debug attributes. This will make it more
            difficult to track down the source file location from which a given issue may have originated, but it will
            reduce the size of the temporary files. As a result, XML parsing will take less time and overall processing
            time will be reduced.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
         <title>Use a fast disk for the temporary directory</title>
         <p>DITA-OT keeps topic and map files as separate files and processes each file multiple times during
            preprocessing. Thus reading from disk, parsing XML, serializing XML, and writing to disk makes processing
            quite I/O intensive. Use either an
            <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_drive" scope="external" format="html">SSD</xref> or a
            <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAM_drive" scope="external" format="html">RAM disk</xref> for
            temporary files, and never use a temporary directory that is not located on the same machine as where the
            processing takes place.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
         <title>Reuse the JVM instance</title>
         <p>For all but extremely large source sets, the JVM will not have enough time to warm-up. By reusing the same
            JVM instance, the first few DITA-OT conversions will be “normal”, but when the JIT starts to kick in, the
            performance increase may be 2-10 fold. This is especially noticeable with smaller source sets, as much of
            the DITA-OT processing is I/O intensive.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
         <title>Use the latest Java version</title>
         <p>DITA-OT 2.0 to 2.3 require Java 7, and DITA-OT 2.4 and newer require Java 8. However, using a newer version
            of Java can further reduce processing time.</p>
      </section>
   </body>

   <related-links>
      <linklist>
         <title>Collected links</title>
         <link href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_drive" scope="external" format="html">
            <linktext>SSD</linktext>
         </link>
         <link href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAM_drive" scope="external" format="html">
            <linktext>RAM disk</linktext>
         </link>
      </linklist>
   </related-links>
</topic>
