<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="using-plugin-URI-extension">
    <title>Referencing files from other plug-ins</title>
    <shortdesc>Starting with DITA-OT 1.5.4, you can use the <filepath id="plugin-uri-ext"
        >plugin:<varname>plugin-id</varname></filepath> URI extension and the <filepath id="antvar"
        >${dita.plugin.<varname>plugin-id</varname>.dir}</filepath> Ant variable to reference the
    base path of another installed DITA-OT plug-in.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xsl:import</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xmlcatalog</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xslt</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>plug-ins<indexterm>using file in another plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>using another plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>preprocessing<indexterm>XSLT</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>catalog<indexterm>referencing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS<indexterm>HTML5</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML5<indexterm>CSS</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <taskbody>
    <section>
      <p>Sometimes you need to reference content in another DITA-OT plug-in. However, the path to an installed plug-in
        is not guaranteed to be the same between different installed instances of DITA-OT. The <filepath
          conref="#using-plugin-URI-extension/plugin-uri-ext"/> URI extension and <filepath
          conref="#using-plugin-URI-extension/antvar"/> Ant variable are provided so your build and XSLT files always
        use the correct path to the plug-in.</p>
      <p>Within a single plug-in, you can safely use relative path references, for example,
          <filepath>xsl/my.xsl</filepath> without specifying the path to the plug-in itself.</p>
    </section>
    <steps-unordered>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use <filepath conref="#using-plugin-URI-extension/antvar"/> in Ant build files.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Use the Ant variable <filepath conref="#using-plugin-URI-extension/antvar"/> anywhere
            in your build file or template to point to the base path of an installed DITA-OT
            plug-in.</p>
        </info>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>The following example copies CSS files from the HTML5 plug-in:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;copy todir="${dita.temp.dir}/css">
  &lt;fileset dir="${dita.plugin.org.dita.html5.dir}/css" 
           includes="*.css"/>
&lt;/copy></codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use <filepath conref="#using-plugin-URI-extension/plugin-uri-ext"/> in XSLT
          files.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Use the URI extension <filepath conref="#using-plugin-URI-extension/plugin-uri-ext"/>
            at the beginning of a file reference—usually in <xmlelement>xsl:import</xmlelement>—to
            point to the base path of an installed DITA-OT plug-in.</p>
        </info>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>The following example imports the base output-message.xsl processing:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:import href="plugin:org.dita.base:xsl/common/output-message.xsl"/></codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
        <info>
          <p>To use the URI extension, your plug-in must reference the DITA-OT catalog file. In your
            Ant build file, add an <xmlelement>xmlcatalog</xmlelement> element referencing the
            DITA-OT catalog file as a child of the <xmlelement>xslt</xmlelement> element.</p>
        </info>
        <stepxmp>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;xslt style="xsl/my.xsl"
      in="${dita.temp.dir}/input.file" 
      out="${dita.temp.dir}/output.file">
  &lt;xmlcatalog refid="dita.catalog"/>
&lt;/xslt></codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
    </steps-unordered>
    <tasktroubleshooting>
      <p>For both of these methods, make sure you use the plug-in ID (defined in the
          <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file) rather than the folder name of the plug-in. In many
        cases, the folder name is not the same as the plug-in ID.</p>
    </tasktroubleshooting>
    </taskbody>
</task>
