<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID">
  <title>Web-based resources</title>
  <shortdesc>There are many vital DITA resources online, including the Yahoo! dita-users group and the DITA-OT project
    website at dita-ot.org.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="https://www.dita-ot.org" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT project website:
              dita-ot.org</xref></dt>
          <dd>The DITA-OT project website at dita-ot.org provides information about the latest toolkit releases,
            including download links, release notes, and documentation for recent DITA-OT versions.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="http://groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/" format="html" scope="external">Yahoo! dita-users
              group</xref></dt>
          <dd>The original DITA list-serv is a vital resource for the DITA community. People post regularly, both asking
            for and offering help. While the archived messages can be difficult to search, this is a treasure trove of
            information.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref format="html" href="https://groups.google.com/d/forum/dita-ot-users" scope="external">DITA-OT Users
              Google Group</xref>
          </dt>
          <dd>General interest DITA-OT product forum, for questions on any aspect of the toolkit — from installation and
            getting started to questions about specific overrides, plug-ins, and customizations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="https://dita-ot.slack.com" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT Development Slack team</xref>
          </dt>
          <dd>Forum for discussion related to DITA-OT development and design. Topics in this forum are more technical in
            nature, covering upcoming design or code changes. To request an invitation and join in the discussion, visit
              <xref href="http://slack.dita-ot.org" format="html" scope="external">slack.dita-ot.org</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/dita/" format="html" scope="external">Home page for the
              DITA Technical Committee</xref></dt>
          <dd>The OASIS DITA Technical Committee develops the DITA standard.<indexterm>OASIS</indexterm></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="http://dita-archive.xml.org/wiki/the-dita-open-toolkit" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT
              project archive</xref></dt>
          <dd>The DITA-OT project archive at dita-archive.xml.org provides news about earlier toolkit releases, and
            release notes for legacy versions.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
