<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="rel1.2" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"><title>DITA OT release 1.2</title><shortdesc>DITA open toolkit Release 1.2 is a major release to add new functions, fulfill new
      requirements, make some function enhancements and fix bugs over release 1.1.2.1.</shortdesc><refbody><section id="section_jyg_jej_nc">
        <title>Important Change</title>
        <p>DITA-OT 1.2 offers new error handling and logging system. If you invoke your
          transformation by using java command line where new error handling and logging system is
          mandatory, you need to set the <varname>CLASSPATH</varname> Environment Variable for
            <codeph>dost.jar</codeph>. If you invoke your transformation by using an ant script, you
          need to do one more step after the setting above. That is adding a parameter in your
          command to invoke an ant script. For example, use <userinput>ant -f ant\sample_xhtml.xml
            -logger org.dita.dost.log.DITAOTBuildLogger</userinput> instead of <userinput>ant -f
            ant\sample_xhtml.xml</userinput> to start a transformation defined in ant script file
          ant\sample_xhtml.xml. </p>
      </section><section id="section_tix_lej_nc">
        <title>New Functions</title>
        <ol><li>
            <b>New plugin archiecture</b>
            <p>DITA Open Toolkit 1.2 provides a new function to help users to download, install and
              use plug-ins and help developers create new plug-ins for DITA Open Toolkit.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Transformation to wordrtf</b>
            <p>DITA Open Toolkit 1.2 provides DITA to Word transforming function to transform DITA
              source files to output in <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Microsoft Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="Microsoft">Microsoft</tm> Word RTF file.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>HTML to DITA migration tool</b>
            <p>DITA Open Toolkit 1.2 provides a HTML to DITA migration tool, which migrates HTML
              files to DITA files. This migration tool originally comes from the developerWorks
              publication of Robert D. Anderson's how-to articles with the original h2d
              code.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Problem determination and log analysis</b>
            <p>In DITA Open Toolkit 1.2, a new logging method is supported to log messages both on
              the screen and into the log file. The messages on the screen present user with the
              status information, warning, error, and fatal error messages. The messages in the log
              file present user with more detailed information about the transformation process. By
              analyzing these messages, user can know what cause the problem and how to solve
              it.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Open DITA User Guide for conditional processing</b>
            <p>In DITA Open Toolkit 1.2, a new user guide which can help users to use conditional
              processing is added to toolkit document.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Include the OASIS version langref</b>
            <p>In DITA Open Toolkit 1.2, a new OASIS version of language reference for DITA standard
              is added to toolkit document.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Document adapt to OASIS DITA 1.0.1 DTDs</b>
            <p>DITA DTD files are updated to 1.0.1 version in DITA Open Toolkit 1.2.</p>
          </li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_cjx_lej_nc">
        <title>Other Changes</title>
        <ol><li>SF Bug 1304545 Some folders were copied to DITA-OT's root directory</li><li>SF Bug 1328689 Stylesheet links in HTML emitted with local filesystem paths</li><li>SF Bug 1333481 Mapref function does not work for maps in another directory</li><li>SF Bug 1343963 Blank index.html generated for ditamap contains only reltabe</li><li>SF Bug 1344486 java.io.EOFException thrown out when reading ditaval file</li><li>SF Bug 1347669 Path Spec. in nested DITA maps</li><li>SF Bug 1357139 filtering behavior doesn't conform to spec</li><li>SF Bug 1358619 The property.temp file gets cleaned out by default</li><li>SF Bug 1366843 XRefs do not generate proper links in FO/PDF</li><li>SF Bug 1367636 dita2fo-elems.xsl has strange line breaks</li><li>SF RFE 1296133 Enable related-links in PDF output</li><li>SF RFE 1326377 Add a /dbg or /debug flag for diagnostic info</li><li>SF RFE 1331727 Toolkit need to run on JDK 1.5.x(only support to run under Sun JDK 1.5
            with saxon in normal case)</li><li>SF RFE 1357054 Be more friendly towards relative directories</li><li>SF RFE 1357906 Provide a default output directory</li><li>SF RFE 1368073 Enable plugins for DITA open toolkit</li><li>SF RFE 1379518 Clearer error messages and improved exception handling</li><li>SF RFE 1379523 DITA to Rich Text Format (.rtf) file</li><li>SF RFE 1382482 plugin architecture of DITA-OT</li></ol>
      </section></refbody></reference>