<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="rel1.0" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"><title>DITA OT release 1.0</title><shortdesc>The initial release of the Open Sourced DITA Toolkit introduces major architectural
      changes from the previous, developerWorks version of the Toolkit.</shortdesc><refbody><section>
        <title>New features</title>
        <ol><li>A new, Java-based processing architecture that supports single-threaded execution
            throughout.</li><li>Ant-based orchestration of the processing environment, from preprocessing to
            transformation to any required post-processing.</li><li>A pre-processor core that supports conditional processing and conref resolution.</li><li>Map-driven processing that generates links for transformed topics.</li><li>A new DITA to HTML transform that replaces the previous topic2html_Impl.xsl core
            transform. This new core is based on requirements for high-volume usage within IBM for
            the past several years.</li></ol>
       <p>Ant-driven processing means that you can
         integrate the DITA processing tools into a seamless pipeline within
         supportive environments such as Eclipse.</p>       <p>The DTDs and
           Schemas in this version are based on those in the previous dita132
           package with bug fixes. The DITA OS Toolkit will later support the
           OASIS 1.0 specification in its public review form.</p>
      </section></refbody></reference>