<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="rel1.1" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"><title>DITA OT release 1.1</title><shortdesc>Release 1.1 is a major release to add new functions, fulfill new requirements, make
      some function enhancements and fix bugs over release 1.0.2.</shortdesc><refbody><section id="section_rnc_tej_nc">
        <ol><li>
            <b>Adaptation to the new OASIS DITA standard</b>
            <p>Release 1.1 implements the new OASIS DITA 1.0 standard for DITA DTDs and Schemas.</p>
            <p>DTDs of the previous release locate in the directory <b>dtd/dita132</b> and schemas
              of the previous release locate in the directory <b>schema/dita132</b>. </p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Transformation to troff</b>
            <p>Release 1.1 supports new troff output. Troff output looks like Linux man page
              output.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>XML catalog support</b>
            <p>An XML catalog, which can consist of several catalog entry files, is a logical
              structure that describes mapping information between public IDs and URLs of DTD files.
              A catalog entry file is an XML file that includes a group of catalog entries. If you
              want to know more about XML catalog, please refer<xref href="../xmlcatalog.xml">XML
                Catalog</xref>.</p>
            <p>A catalog entry can be used to locate a unified resource identifier (URI) reference
              for a certain resource such as a DTD file. An external entity's public identifier
              is used for mapping to the URI reference. The URI of any system identifier can be
              ignored.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Topicref referring to a nested topic</b>
            <p>The href attribute of the topicref is extended to quote a nested topic in a dita
              file.</p>
            <p>For example, in previous releases, href attribute is set like: href =
              "xxx.dita"; in release 1.1, href attribute can be set like: href =
              "xxx.dita#abc.dita".</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Globalization support</b>
            <p>Release 1.1 supports over 20 popular languages within the content of dita files. And
              it also provides translation function for DITA keywords to over 20 languages.
              Currently this globalization support fully applies to Eclipse Help and XHTML
              transformations, and partially applies to other transformations.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Accessibility support</b>
            <p>Accessibility support is now partially applies to PDF and XHTML transformations.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Eclipse Content Provider Support</b>
            <p>Please refer to <xref href="../eclipseconprov.xml">Eclipse Content Provider</xref> for
              detail information.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Index information in output</b>
            <p>The output of HTML Help and Java Help transformations contain index information
              now.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Mapref function</b>
            <p>Mapref refers to a special usage of the <tt>&lt;topicref&gt;</tt> element as a
              reference to another ditamap file. This allows you to manage the overall ditamap file
              more easily. A large ditamap file can thus be broken down into several ditamap files,
              making it easier for the user to manage the overall logical structure. On the other
              hand, this mechanism also increases the reusability of those ditamap files. If you
              want to know more about mapref, please refer <xref href="../mapref.xml">Mapref</xref>.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>TOC generation for Eclipse Help transformation</b>
            <p>TOC generation now supported in transformation to Eclipse Help. Eclipse.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>Helpset generation for Java Help transformation</b>
            <p>Helpset generation now supported in transformation to Java Help.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>New parameters supported in Java commands</b>
            <p>In Java commands: /indexshow, /outext, /copycss, /xsl, /tempdir.</p>
          </li><li>
            <b>New parameters supported in Ant scripts</b>
            <p>In Ant scripts: args.indexshow, args.outext, args.copycss, args.xsl,
              dita.temp.dir</p>
          </li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_goc_tej_nc">
        <p>
          <b>Other Changes</b>
          <ol><li>SF bug 1220569: Add XML Schema processing to DITA-OT</li><li>SF bug 1220644: Prompted ant--image does not link for single topic to PDF</li><li>SF bug 1229058: Add schema validation loading file for processing</li><li>SF RFE 1176855: Ant must be run from toolkit directory</li><li>SF RFE 1183482: Copy pre-existing html to output dir</li><li>SF RFE 1183490: Provide argument to specify the location of temp dir</li><li>SF RFE 1201242: override capability</li></ol>
        </p>
      </section></refbody></reference>
