<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="rel1.3" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"><title>DITA OT release 1.3</title><refbody><section id="section_qhs_zdj_nc">
        <title>OASIS DITA 1.1 support</title>
        <p>Things to know about OASIS DITA 1.1 support in this release:</p>
        <ol><li>DITA-OT 1.3 provides preliminary processing support for the upcoming OASIS DITA 1.1
            specification (see <xref format="html" href="http://wiki.oasis-open.org/dita/Roadmap_for_DITA_development" scope="external">http://wiki.oasis-open.org/dita/Roadmap_for_DITA_development</xref>). Because the
            proposed OASIS DITA 1.1 DTDs and Schemas are fully backwards compatible with the latest
            DITA 1.0.1 DTDs and Schemas, the 1.3 Toolkit provides the proposed 1.1 materials as the
            default DTDs for processing. The XML Catalog resolution maps any references for DITA 1.0
            doctypes to the 1.1 DTDs, for example. All processing ordinarily dependent on the 1.0
            definition continues to work as usual, and any documents that make use of the newer
            1.1-based elements or attributes will be supported with specific new processing function
            (such as base support for the new &lt;data&gt; element). <i>Documents created with the
              proposed OASIS DITA 1.1 DTDs are the only ones ever likely to have features that
              invoke the specific new 1.1-based processing support</i>.<note type="important">Because this support is based on a yet-to-be-approved version of the proposed OASIS
              DITA 1.1 specification, if you choose to investigate any1.1-based function, be aware
              that the 1.1 implementation in this version of the Toolkit is preliminary and very
              much forward-looking. Upon final approval of the DITA 1.1 standard, Toolkit developers
              will, of course, review our implementation to make certain that it conforms to the
              defined level of reference implementation.</note></li><li>Related to the DITA 1.1 preliminary implementation, the much-discussed bookmap updates
            for DITA 1.1 will be provided as override capabilities for the FO plugin (Idiom's
            donation). Note that:<ul><li>The FO demo transform code at the 1.2.2 level is still included in the DITA 1.3
                package, but is now deprecated.</li><li>To get the FO updates for 1.3, grab the FO plug-in at its next update, which
                should be shortly after the 1.3 core Toolkit code is released. </li><li>The updated FO plug-in will be usable with FOP as well as with XEP. </li></ul></li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_mdb_aej_nc">
        <title>Changes</title>
        <p>The DITA Open Toolkit team understands the need for stability in essential APIs in the
          Toolit. This verson of the toolkit provides some strategic updates that correct some
          long-overdue faults in the original implementation. Necessarily, there are some changes to
          note: </p>
        <ol><li><u>Change to build.xml: </u>To make the DITA processing environment more like other
            Ant-driven build environments, the original build.xml has been renamed as
            build_demo.xml. The current build.xml in this release is now the normal ANT script
            entrance for starting a transformation. If you have created Ant tasks that tried to work
            around the former build.xml architecture, those might need to be revised to take
            advantage of the separated function.</li><li><u>Change to command line invocations: </u>The "Ant refactoring" exercise
            for this release has changed some previously documented Ant calls for running demos.
            This change enables better use of the Ant modules for power users who need to integrate
            the Toolkit into programming build environments such as Eclipse, but the change affects
            some documentation. This is a permanent change that should remain stable from now on.
            Wherever you see an older instruction like "c:\dita-ot&gt;ant all", you now
            need to indicate the component that contains the demos, so you would type
            "c:\dita-ot&gt;ant all -f build_demo.xml". </li><li><u>Separation of demo targets from formal component targets: </u>Another effect of the
            Ant refactoring is that the internal programming targets will now be displayed when you
            type "ant -p". To see both those programmings targets and the demos that are
            part of this component, type "c:\dita-ot&gt;ant -p -f build_demo.xml". To run
            just one of the demos that you see in the resulting list, dita.faq for example, type
            "c:\dita-ot&gt;ant dita.faq -f build_demo.xml". </li><li><u>Classpath update to enable catalog resolver: </u>This release now includes the
            Apache catalog resolver for improved lookup of DTDs by any of the Toolkit components.
            The fullpackage version of the Toolkit sets up these variables for each session. For the
            regular (smaller) version of the Toolkit, you need to include lib and
            lib\resource\resolver.jar into your classpath. For example if your CLASSPATH is like:
              <pre xml:space="preserve">c:\dita-ot\lib\dost.jar</pre><p>you need to change it to:
              </p><pre xml:space="preserve">c:\dita-ot\lib;c:\dita-ot\lib\dost.jar;c:\dita-ot\lib\resolver.jar</pre><p>At
              any time, the full version can be used like a normal installation as long as you
              update the system variables either in the evironment settings or in a batch file that
              sets up the shell environment. </p></li><li><u>License bundling: </u>To reduce the duplication of builds on Sourceforge in which
            the only difference was the license provided in each, both the Apache and CPL licenses
            are included in root directory of the Toolkit. Use the one that applies to your
            situation.</li><li><u>Two install options: </u>Two download versions are now offered. The smaller one is
            for updating existing installations or for reuse in embedded applications that already
            provide the other processing components--business as usual. A new package with
            "fullpackage" in the name now incorporates the essential processing modules to
            create a processing environment for new users and evaluators that requires nothing more
            than to unzip the file into an appropriate directory and then click on a
            "start" batch file. A new document in its root directory (an output of
            doc/EvaluateOT.dita, <q>Evaluating the DITA Open Toolkit (fullpackage version)</q>)
            informs new users how to install and use the Toolkit for the first time.</li><li><u>Other enhancements: </u>The public design discussions that fed into the final
            selection and architectures for this release are documented at the DITA Focus Area in a
            topic called <q>DITA OT 1.3 Issues tracking</q> (<xref format="html" href="http://dita.xml.org/node/1282" scope="external">http://dita.xml.org/node/1282</xref>).</li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_rci_aej_nc">
        <title>7 Improvements</title>
        <ol><li>Preliminary support for OASIS DITA 1.1 </li><li>Support ICU in index sorting </li><li>Integrate with Eclipse </li><li>Refactor Ant script for easy override </li><li>Topicmerge reimplementation in JAVA </li><li>Enable XML Catalog Resolver </li><li>Full package distribution (was GUI/usability)</li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_pyo_aej_nc">
        <title>21 SourceForge Bugs Fixed</title>
        <ol><li>SF Bug 1582506 Docbook cannot handle &lt;author&gt; </li><li>SF Bug 1548189 Sections should not jump to &lt;h4&gt; for Accessibility reasons </li><li>SF Bug 1548180 Spaces dropped from index terms </li><li>SF Bug 1548154 XHTML index links should go to the topic </li><li>SF Bug 1545038 CommandLineInvoker is unfriendly towards spaces </li><li>SF Bug 1541055 topicref @id incorrectly uses NMTOKEN type </li><li>SF Bug 1530443 dost.jar relies on the incorrect behavior of Xerces </li><li>SF Bug 1473029 Syntax code makes overrides difficult </li><li>SF Bug 1470101 Metadata in topics is left out of XHTML headers </li><li>SF Bug 1470077 Choicetable headers create attribute inside attribute </li><li>SF Bug 1470057 Step template creates attributes after creating tags </li><li>SF Bug 1465947 &lt;topichead&gt; without children the whole branch to disappear </li><li>SF Bug 1465941 Keywords defined in map are ignored if &lt;topicref&gt; contains t </li><li>SF Bug 1465866 Problems in catalog-dita.txt </li><li>SF Bug 1460447 &lt;morerows&gt; not well supported in pdf tranformation. </li><li>SF Bug 1457187 'copy-to' doesn't actually copy files </li><li>SF Bug 1454835 OT renders files referenced via conref only </li><li>SF Bug 1427808 Should be easier to modify link attributes in XHTML </li><li>SF Bug 1422182 @colname renaming needs to apply to @namest and @nameend </li><li>SF Bug 1417820 fo and docbook outputs can\'t handle deep topic dirs </li><li>SF Bug 1368997 PDF Vertical list of author redundancy </li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_eqv_aej_nc">
        <title>1 SourceForge Patch Added</title>
        <ol><li>SF Patch 1503296 Refactor of HTMLHelp inifiles creation</li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_zbd_bej_nc">
        <title>1 SourceForge RFE Added</title>
        <ol><li>SF RFE 1160960 Enh: Toolkit should work with both both *.dita and *.xml</li></ol>
      </section></refbody><related-links><linklist><desc>SourceForge bugs, patches, and RFEs listed above can be found in SourceForge Bugs,
            Patches, and RFE tracker pages</desc><link href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=132728&amp;atid=725074" scope="external"><linktext>Bugs tracker</linktext></link><link href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=132728&amp;atid=725076" scope="external"><linktext>Patches tracker</linktext></link><link href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=132728&amp;atid=725077" scope="external"><linktext>RFE tracker</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></reference>