<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="rel1.4" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"><title>DITA OT release 1.4</title><abstract><shortdesc>Release 1.4 is a major release to add new functions, fulfill new
        requirements, make some function enhancements and fix bugs over release 1.3.1.</shortdesc>
      Available since August 1, 2007</abstract><refbody><section id="section_ruu_wdj_nc">
        <p> The DITA-OT Release 1.4 contains full support for the OASIS DITA 1.1 standard. This
          completes the preliminary support added in the 1.3 and 1.3.1 versions of the toolkit. New
          and improved items for 1.1 are listed under [Improvements] below. Support for the new
          bookmap standard is available in the latest version of the FO plug-in, which uses the
          "pdf2" transform type; it will be released together with or soon after the release of
          DITA-OT 1.4. The deprecated "pdf" transform type has not been updated for the new bookmap.
          Together with DITA 1.1 support, the toolkit development team has improved error reporting
          so that build failures are more accurately reported at the end of the build. Error
          handling will continue to improve in future releases. Release 1.4 comes in two versions.
          The full version contains several external packages that are useful or critical to running
          the toolkit, such as Xalan and the XML Catalog resolver. The smaller package contains only
          core toolkit code. NOTE ABOUT DEPRECATED CODE: changes for the new DITAVAL standard
          required a change to code in dita2htmlImpl.xsl. The "flagit" named template is deprecated
          and will not work with the new ditaval format. Overrides to this step should be updated to
          use "start-flagit" and "end-flagit". The flagit template will continue to work with the
          old ditaval but will generate a warning for each call. </p>
      </section><section id="section_xuu_wdj_nc">
        <title>Changes</title>
        <ol><li>
            <p>Release 1.4 improves the processing of DITA documents using XML Schemas. One was able
              to process these type of documents in Release 1.3.1 but it meant that the schema
              location had to have the ablsolute location of the schema in order for the Toolkit
              properly.</p>
            <p>DITA 1.1 introduces the use of URNs to normatively identify the schemas used for
              validation. The URNs have the following desing pattern
              "urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:xsd:&lt;schemaDocument&gt;:1.1". You should use these in as
              the value for the attribute xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation.</p>
          </li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_tra_ydj_nc">
        <title>13 Improvements</title>
        <ol><li>Support &lt;title&gt; in map </li><li>Ignore Index-base in default processing</li><li>Retrieve the link text from abstract element.</li><li>Format shortdesc in abstract appropriately</li><li>Add standard code to allow overrides to easily process generalized version of unknown
            and foreign element </li><li>Support @dir on every element</li><li>Refactor mapref resolution</li><li>Support generalization and re-specialization of unknown/foreign elements</li><li>Replace Move Index module with new Move Metadata module</li><li>New DITAVAL standard support</li><li>New chunk attribute support</li><li>Support XML Schema validated instance document processing using XML Catalogs</li></ol>
      </section><section id="section_vuo_ydj_nc">
        <title>17 SF Bugs Fixed</title>
        <ol><li>1700561 Null Pointer Exception on Missing domain= Attribute</li><li>1733264 pretty.xsl is broken</li><li>1619074 table in step screws up following steps for HTML generation</li><li>1728700 GenMapAndTopicList keeps filtering when called a second time</li><li>1732562 DitaWriter.java can duplicate @xtrf and @xtrc</li><li>1733108 Update Bookmap sample files to DITA 1.1</li><li>1706263 Conrefing from a map to topic is not working properly</li><li>1677620 Non-DITA file is treated as DITA in pre-process</li><li>1717471 Links show up more than once</li><li>1712543 gen-list-without-flagging : NullPointerException</li><li>1652892 Invalid hdr/ftr arg value causes build failure</li><li>1647950 PIs in DITA source are dropped in the processing pipeline</li><li>1644559 Force Toolkit to use private catalog to allow schemas to work properly</li><li>1642138 Move javamerge target out of build_template.xml</li><li>1643155 Map TOC is HTML even for transtype="xhtml"</li><li>1637564 topicpull breaks specializations of xref</li><li>1676968 Plugins adding to classpath break when basedir != dita.dir</li></ol>
      </section></refbody><related-links><linklist><desc>SourceForge bugs, patches, and RFEs listed above can be found in SourceForge Bugs,
          Patches, and RFE tracker pages</desc><link href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=132728&amp;atid=725074" scope="external"><linktext>Bugs tracker</linktext></link><link href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=132728&amp;atid=725076" scope="external"><linktext>Patches tracker</linktext></link><link href="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=132728&amp;atid=725077" scope="external"><linktext>RFE tracker</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></reference>