<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="rel2.0" xml:lang="en">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 2.0 Release Notes</title>
  <reference id="releasehighlights">
    <title>Release Highlights</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.0 includes the following significant enhancements: <ul>
            <li>New <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command line tool provides a simple command interface</li>
            <li>XSLT stylesheets have been converted to XSLT 2.0</li>
            <li>Processing order of keys and conrefs has been changed to optimize processing speed for many
              documents</li>
            <li>Initial preview support for many features from the upcoming DITA 1.3 standard</li>
            <li>Major refactoring to remove unused, out of date, or deprecated code in Java and XSLT </li>
            <li>Faster PDF output generation</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
        <p>For details on these and all other enhancements, see the sections below.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  <!--
  <reference id="general-enhancements-and-changes">
    <title>General Enhancements and Changes</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="jelovirt">
          <p>TODO:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>New command line tool</li>
            <li>XSLT stylesheets have been converted to XSLT 2.0</li>
            <li>Processing order of keys and conrefs has been changed</li>
            <li>Initial preview support for DITA 1.3</li>
          </ul>
        </draft-comment>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  <reference id="migration">
    <title>Migration From Previous Releases</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="jelovirt">TODO</draft-comment>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  -->
  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="infotexture">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have
          changed since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.0 requires the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) or Java Development Kit (JDK),
          version 7 or later.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  <reference id="rel2.0.issues">
    <title>Resolved Issues</title>
    <shortdesc>The following items are included in DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.0. Issue numbers correspond to the
      tracking number in the <ph><xref keyref="dita-ot-issues">GitHub issues
      tracker</xref></ph>.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <title>Initial Preview Support for DITA 1.3</title>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1649" format="html" scope="external">#1649</xref>
            Support DITA 1.3 link syntax (milestone 2)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1636" format="html" scope="external">#1636</xref>
            Support DITA 1.3 cascade attribute (milestone 2)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1635" format="html" scope="external">#1635</xref>
            Implement DITA 1.3 profiling (milestone 2)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1651" format="html" scope="external">#1651</xref> Add
            new DITA 1.3 highlighting elements (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1652" format="html" scope="external">#1652</xref> Add
            DITA 1.3 markup and xml domain support (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1654" format="html" scope="external">#1654</xref> Add
            DITA 1.3 div element (milestone 4)</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Feature Requests</title>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>The filtering logic has been extended to catch cases which could cause PDF rendering to fail when
              "exclude" actions in ditaval filtering result in empty elements. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1192" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1192</xref> Empty &lt;ul>&lt;/ul> kills FOP (milestone 1)</li>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1610" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1610</xref> Filtered content leads to total fail of PDF rendering duplicate (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The format of figure and table references in PDF output can now be defined using the same parameters that
              govern HTML output.</p>
            <p>The <parmname>args.figurelink.style</parmname> and <parmname>args.tablelink.style</parmname> Ant
              parameters are now also considered when generating PDF output. The <option>NUMBER</option> and
                <option>TITLE</option> options previously available for HTML-based output formats can now also be
              applied to PDF output. By default PDF uses the new value <option>NUMTITLE</option> to include both the
              number and title of the referenced figure or table as in previous toolkit versions. The
                <option>NUMTITLE</option> value is not supported for other transform types. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1267" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1267</xref> PDF support for figurelink/tablelink.style (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The XSLT processing has been updated to use the XHTML output method for XHTML 1.0 and assign the
              mandatory xhtml namespace to the the generated HTML root element:
              <codeblock>&lt;html&#xA0;xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"&gt;</codeblock></p>
            <p>This ensures the XSL processor formats elements in the output with XHTML syntax (self-closing elements
              include an additional space for browser compatibility). <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1347" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1347</xref> Issue with "xsl/dita2xhtml.xsl"? (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <draft-comment author="infotexture">TODO: Add extended description to Release Highlights</draft-comment>
            <p>A new <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command line tool wraps Ant processing into a single command. The CLI sets
              all required environment variables and allows you to run DITA-OT without setting up anything beforehand.
              Instead of calling <cmdname>java</cmdname> or <cmdname>ant</cmdname>, you can now run
              <codeblock><cmdname>dita</cmdname> -f <varname>format</varname> -i <varname>input</varname> <varname>[options]</varname></codeblock>
              The command line tool is a wrapper around the Ant interface; it takes the simplified parameters as input,
              converts them to Ant parameters, and then runs an Ant build. The command-line tool supports a subset of
              the parameters that are available to the Ant builds. For example, use the <option>-f</option> option
              instead of <option>-Dtranstype</option> to set the output format, and use <option>-i</option> insted of
                <option>-Dargs.input</option> to set the input file.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1506" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1506</xref> New command line tool (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <draft-comment author="infotexture">TODO: Add to Release Highlights / Migration sections</draft-comment>
            <p>The XSLT stylesheets for preprocessing and transformation types have been converted to version 2.0 and
              EXSLT extensions like node-set have been removed. If you have customized versions of these stylesheets in
              your own plugins, you may need to adjust them for compatibility with XSLT 2.0.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1507" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1507</xref> Convert XSLT to version 2.0 (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Apache Ivy is now used to resolve project dependencies. A new <filepath>ivy.xml</filepath> file lists the
              resources necessary to build the project. Ivy uses this list to resolve and download the necessary
              resources from an artifact repository, so the corresponding libraries were removed from the Git
              repository. (They are still included in the <filepath>/lib/</filepath> folder of the appropriate client
              distribution packages.)<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1511" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1511</xref> Use Ivy for dependency management (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>A new <option>html5</option> transformation type is now available to produce output compatible with the
                <xref href="http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-html5-20141028/" format="html" scope="external">HTML5</xref>
              recommendation recently published by the W3C. This uses the <filepath>dita2html5</filepath> shell to
              extend the existing <option>xhtml</option> transform for HTML5-compatible output. The resulting HTML files
              use the <tt>!DOCTYPE html</tt> document type declaration instead of the XHTML 1.0 Transitional output
              generated by the <option>xhtml</option> transformation. To support legacy browsers that don't recognize
              the preferred short doctype, the SYSTEM keyword is included in the declaration with the
              "about:legacy-compat" value. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1522" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1522</xref> Add HTML5 transtype (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The Ant scripts and stylesheets in the HTML and XHTML transformation types have been refactored to reduce
              code duplication. <ph id="custom-files">If you have customized versions of these files in your own
                plugins, you may need to adjust them for compatibility with DITA-OT 2.0</ph>.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1523" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1523</xref> Reduce HTML/XHTML code duplication (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The custom print filtering code has been replaced with a generated DITAVAL filter file that is applied to
              all print-oriented transformation types. The <codeph>dita.transtype.print</codeph> plug-in extension point
              introduced in DITA-OT 1.5.4 is used to declare a transtype as a print type. When output is generated via
              plugins that include this property, the following DITAVAL filter is applied:<codeblock>&lt;val>
  &lt;prop att="print" val="yes" action="include"/>
  &lt;prop att="print" val="printonly" action="include"/>
  &lt;prop att="print" val="no" action="exclude"/>
  &lt;prop att="print" action="include"/>
&lt;/val></codeblock><ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1524" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1524</xref> Use DITAVAL for print filtering (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The <codeph>coderef</codeph> element now supports fragment identifiers as specified in <xref
                keyref="rfc5147"/> along with the custom line-range fragment function previously added in DITA-OT
              1.8.</p>
            <p>You can use fragment identifiers to refer to specific parts of a file by line position or range. For
              example, the following <codeph>coderef</codeph> includes a range of lines from an external file in a
                <codeph>codeblock</codeph>.</p>
            <p><codeblock>&lt;coderef href="Parser.scala#line=4,10" format="scala"/></codeblock>
              <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1548" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1548</xref> Support RFC 5147 in coderef (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The list of chunked topics is now included in the full list of DITA topics, rather than generating a
              separate list for topics that were created as a result of chunking. All chunk-generated content is now
              treated as if it was part of the original input set. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1561" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1561</xref> Combine chunkedtopic lists into fullditatopic list (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>An Index is now created when generating PDF output via Apache Formatting Objects Processor (FOP).<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1569" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1569</xref> Index capability with FOP (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Single-topic PDFs now include only the topic content, rather than generating a cover page and table of
              contents as in previous versions of DITA-OT.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1601" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1601</xref> Change output for rendering a single topic to PDF (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Plugins can now be installed and removed via the new <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command line tool.</p>
            <p><codeblock>$ dita -install &lt;plugin-zip-path>
$ dita -uninstall &lt;plugin-id></codeblock></p>
            <p>Plugins provided as ZIP or JAR files are extracted to the <filepath>plugins</filepath> folder on
              installation. A new plugin folder is created based on the plugin ID in the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>
              file. If the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> is located in a subfolder inside the archive, that subfolder
              is treated as the plugin folder. After the plugin is extracted, the integration process is run. The
              uninstall operation removes the subfolder with the specified ID from the <filepath>plugins</filepath>
              folder and runs the integration process to update the list of registered plugins. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1602" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1602</xref> Add plug-in installation operation to integration (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>HTML output now wraps scalable vector graphics (SVG) images in an <codeph>img</codeph> element like all
              other image types, rather than in an <codeph>embed</codeph> element. This ensures that SVG images in
              cross-references are correctly rendered as hyperlinks in HTML-based output formats.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1608" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1608</xref> img should be used instead of embed in XHTML output for all image types (milestone
                  1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The bundled distribution of Apache Ant has been updated from version 1.8.4 to 1.9.2. For details on the
              changes in recent Ant versions, see <xref href="https://ant.apache.org/antnews.html" format="html"
                scope="external">Ant Project News</xref>.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1612" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1612</xref> Update Ant to 1.9.2 (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>PDF builds no longer require Apache FOP to be present in the <filepath>fop/lib</filepath> folder of the
              PDF plugin. Previous versions of DITA-OT expected to find Apache FOP in the default location and issued an
              error if the path was not present (even if FOP was available in an alternate location).<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1614" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1614</xref> ant build should not bail out when fop directory has no lib folder (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The deprecated legacy PDF transformation is no longer included in the default distribution packages.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1616" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1616</xref> Remove legacy PDF from default distributions (milestone 1)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The deprecated <filepath>integrator.properties</filepath> file has been removed. The integration-related
              properties <option>plugindirs</option> and <option>plugin.ignores</option> are now specified along with
              other configuration properties in the <filepath>lib/configuration.properties</filepath> file.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1509" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1509</xref> Remove deprecated code (in progress)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Additional HTML entities have been added to the <filepath>entities.properties</filepath> file that is
              used in the HTMLHelp transformation to provide support for Greek characters and other commonly used
              special characters in Windows help files (CHM).<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1644" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1644</xref> Add more HTML entities to file entities.properties in dost.jar (milestone 2)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The @location attributes in integration-generated Ant properties now use the forward slash character (/)
              as directory separator to ensure that generated pathnames are compatible with both UNIX and Windows.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1643" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1643</xref> Integrator task constructs property constructs with platform-dependent path separators
                  (milestone 2)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The order of preprocessing stages has been optimized to move keyref processing before conref processing.
              This provides significant performance gains for source that uses multiple key references within reusable content.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1631" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1631</xref> Process keyrefs before conref (milestone 2)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Removed support for the rarely used <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname>=<option>2</option> option
              that generated output for content located outside the DITA map directory. If output must be generated for
              content that is not located in or beneath the directory containing the DITA map file, option
                <option>3</option> should be used instead to shift the output directory so that it contains all output
              for the publication. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1673" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1673</xref> Remove support for generate.copy.outer=2 (milestone 3)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>New templates and variables have been added to make it easier to include a back cover in PDF output. A
              new <codeph>generate-back-cover</codeph> option is now provided in the
                <filepath>basic-settings.xsl</filepath> file in the <filepath>cfg/fo/attrs/</filepath> folder of the PDF
              plugin. This option is disabled by default. An empty XSL template named
                <codeph>createBackCoverContents</codeph> has been added to <filepath>xsl/fo/front-matter.xsl</filepath>.
              Custom PDF plugins can enable back cover generation and adjust the template to include images or text on
              the last page of PDF files.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1671" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1671</xref> Add support for generating back cover on PDF (milestone 3)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The redundant code that supported legacy FrameMaker syntax for <codeph>indexterm</codeph> elements has
              been removed. The same functionality is available with a preprocessing step.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1667" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1667</xref> Remove FrameMaker index syntax support (milestone 3)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>When generating PDF output for bookmaps, the <codeph>notices</codeph> element in
                <codeph>frontmatter</codeph> now uses the preface static contents template to ensure that page numbering
              is consistent with the numbering scheme used for other <codeph>frontmatter</codeph> content.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1186" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1186</xref> PDF2: update processTopicNotices staticcontents (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Localization strings for all transformation types can now be configured in one place by specifying the
                <parmname>variable.file.url</parmname> parameter.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1188" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1188</xref> Localization should be independent of transtype. (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>An error message has been added to alert users if the root ditamap contains a <codeph>topicref</codeph>
              element that refers to a submap without setting the format attribute to <option>ditamap</option>. In
                <option>lax</option> processing mode, the debug filter will add the missing attribute for links to maps,
              but it will not fix any existing incorrect format values.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1310" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1310</xref> Improve error message during topicmerge step in case format attribute is incorrect
                  (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The DTDs and XML Schemas included with the toolkit have been bundled as plugins to facilitate maintenance
              and customization.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1508" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1508</xref> Move DTDs and XML Schemas to plug-ins (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>PDF output is now generated faster as a result of performance optimizations in the XSLT stylesheets of
              the PDF2 plugin.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1672" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1672</xref> Performance optimizations for the PDF2 plugin (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The default map processing for HTML now generates a cover page with a table of contents in an HTML5
                <codeph>nav</codeph> element rather than generating a separate ToC file for use in a frameset.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1674" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1674</xref> Change HTML default TOC to cover with TOC (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Figure descriptions in HTML output now appear in the same paragraph as the figure title.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1695" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1695</xref> In XHTML output the figure title and figure description should be in the same
                  paragraph (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The interdependent maplink and move-links preprocessing steps have been merged into a single step.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1714" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1714</xref> Merge maplink and move-links preprocessing steps (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Topic references inside <codeph>glossarylist</codeph> elements are now supported in PDF output. They are
              treated like regular nested topics.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1719" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1719</xref> Restore glossarylist check introduced in #1659 (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>If the lines of program listing are too long to fit into one line, they can now be marked with the
              &#x25BA; character (<codeph>&amp;#x25BA;</codeph>) to indicate that code continues on the next line. Lines
              will be automatically wrapped at this character.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1735" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1735</xref> Support marking wrapped lines in codeblock (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>Profiling attributes set on DITA content are now mapped to their equivalent HTML5 <codeph>data-</codeph>
              attributes. This allows you to use Javascript or CSS rules to show/hide parts of the output based on user roles.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1739" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1739</xref> Map profiling attributes set on DITA elements to equivalent HTML5 "data-" attributes
                  (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>A new <parmname>root-chunk-override</parmname> parameter has been added to support overrides to the root
              map chunk value.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1742" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1742</xref> Add override for map chunk (milestone 4)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The Java code has been refactored to use URI and File objects instead of Strings to permit automatic
              validation of values.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1544" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1544</xref> Use URI and File instead of String (in progress)</li>
              </ul></p></li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1095" format="html" scope="external">#1095</xref>
            Empty tags result in invalid HTML (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1239" format="html" scope="external">#1239</xref>
            Essentially needs XercesImpl (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1247" format="html" scope="external">#1247</xref>
            Enable specifying MathML file as image/@href (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1272" format="html" scope="external">#1272</xref>
            chapter numbering confused when chapters and parts in bookmap (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1407" format="html" scope="external">#1407</xref>
            "Ambiguous rule match" in PDF processing XSLT when &lt;imagemap> is used in topic (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1421" format="html" scope="external">#1421</xref>
            Warnings when converting to PDF with XEP (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1462" format="html" scope="external">#1462</xref>
            Support for &lt;table> rowheader in PDF output (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1486" format="html" scope="external">#1486</xref> PDF
            transform does not apply @rowsep correctly (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1607" format="html" scope="external">#1607</xref>
            Keyref not processed for pushed conrefs (milestone 1)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1620" format="html" scope="external">#1620</xref> ODT
            plugin fails due to missing getMax() (milestone 2)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1619" format="html" scope="external">#1619</xref> Add
            validation for attribute generalization (milestone 2)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1103" format="html" scope="external">#1103</xref>
            DITA-OT doesn't rewrite lq/@href (milestone 2)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1668" format="html" scope="external">#1668</xref> Fix
            table cell @id and @headers attributes #1596 (milestone 3)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1634" format="html" scope="external">#1634</xref> XML
            Catalog which has a DOCTYPE declaration is not properly parsed by Integrator task (milestone 3)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1596" format="html" scope="external">#1596</xref> xref
            to table cell of DITA simple table does not result in correct target in &lt;a> element (XHTML output)
            (milestone 3)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1539" format="html" scope="external">#1539</xref>
            TopicMerge generates multiple topic entries in the merged middle file. (milestone 3)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1231" format="html" scope="external">#1231</xref>
            &lt;screen> and &lt;codebock> do not support all frame attributes (milestone 3)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1086" format="html" scope="external">#1086</xref>
            metadata in ancestor map not inherited by topics in childmap (milestone 3)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1183" format="html" scope="external">#1183</xref>
            PDF2: image/@placement='break' breaks keeps. (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1209" format="html" scope="external">#1209</xref>
            border-after-width.conditionality mismatches border-bottom (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1344" format="html" scope="external">#1344</xref>
            &lt;related-links> element breaks child links (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1488" format="html" scope="external">#1488</xref> Doc
            gives wrong value for onlytopic.in.map, or code uses wrong value (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1678" format="html" scope="external">#1678</xref>
            Potential memory leaks in DITA OT 1.8 (probably also 1.7) (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1679" format="html" scope="external">#1679</xref>
            DITA-OT 2.0 M 3: maprefImpl.xsl: XPTY0004: A sequence of more than one item is not allowed as the first
            argument of contains() (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1682" format="html" scope="external">#1682</xref>
            DITA-OT 2.0 M 3: nested topicref elements cause false warnings on wrong topic type (DOTX019W) (milestone
            4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1684" format="html" scope="external">#1684</xref>
            Internal links in conreffed topic are not properly re-written (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1693" format="html" scope="external">#1693</xref>
            Preserve @class and @outputclass values for DITA Map topicrefs in XHTML output (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1700" format="html" scope="external">#1700</xref>
            VERSION_PATTERN typo (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1701" format="html" scope="external">#1701</xref>
            Frame attribute not supported for fig element (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1711" format="html" scope="external">#1711</xref> The
            "path2project-uri" is not output in chunked topics [DITA OT 1.8] (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1712" format="html" scope="external">#1712</xref> PDF2
            pipeline throws MalformedURLException (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1727" format="html" scope="external">#1727</xref> Obey
            @scalefit attribute on an image (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1728" format="html" scope="external">#1728</xref>
            Conref push into codeblock causes angle brackets in output (milestone 4)</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1732" format="html" scope="external">#1732</xref>
            xrefs to &lt;preface> topics fail in PDF2 output in 1.8.4 (milestone 4)</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Maintenance Release 2.0.1</title>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1744" format="html" scope="external">#1744</xref>
            copy-to attribute not processed correctly (error DOTX008E) in XHTML transtype on a topicref included in a
            child map</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1790" format="html" scope="external">#1790</xref> FO:
            Xref processing does not handle case of key with no remote resource or link text</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1806" format="html" scope="external">#1806</xref> IDs
            are not preserved on &lt;bodydiv&gt; element</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1808" format="html" scope="external">#1808</xref>
            DITA-OT 2.0: PDF bookmarks (TOC, index) not in language indicated in source files</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1810" format="html" scope="external">#1810</xref>
            DITA-OT 2.0: typo in PDF-plugin, xsl/fo/toc.xsl ("boookmap")</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1811" format="html" scope="external">#1811</xref>
            Filtering doesn't support @deliveryTarget</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1813" format="html" scope="external">#1813</xref>
            Mappull step fails with nested concept</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1814" format="html" scope="external">#1814</xref> Task
            with links and nested task fails in XHTML</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1815" format="html" scope="external">#1815</xref>
            Convert String to double Error message when we try to generate pdf</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1826" format="html" scope="external">#1826</xref> OT
            2.0: Map with subject scheme and non-below map fails</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  <!--
  <reference id="limitations">
    <title>Limitations</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="infotexture">Add info on any significant open issues, caveats or known limitations in DITA markup support.</draft-comment>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  -->
</reference>
