<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="rel2.1" xml:lang="en">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 2.1.2 Release Notes</title>

  <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 2.1.2 is a maintenance release that includes fixes for reported
    issues.</shortdesc>

  <!--
  <reference id="releasehighlights">
    <title>Release Highlights</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1 includes the following significant enhancements: <ul>
            <li></li>
          </ul>
        </p>
        <p>For details on these and all other enhancements, see the sections below.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  -->
  <!--
  <reference id="migration">
    <title>Migration From Previous Releases</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="jelovirt">TODO</draft-comment>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  -->
  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="infotexture">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have
          changed since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1 requires the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) or Java
          Development Kit (JDK), version <keyword keyref="tool.java.version"/> or later.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="rel2.1.issues">
    <title>Resolved issues</title>
    <shortdesc>The following items are included in DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1. Issue numbers
      correspond to the tracking number in the <ph><xref keyref="dita-ot-issues">GitHub issues
          tracker</xref></ph>.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
      <!--
      <section>
        <title>Extended Preview Support for DITA 1.3</title>
        <ul>
          <li></li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      -->
      <section>
        <title>Maintenance Release 2.1.2</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1.2 includes the following bug fixes:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Index terms starting with “Ñ” are no longer dropped from Spanish PDF indexes. They are now handled with
              the correct Spanish sort order and placed in a group between “N” and “O”, under the “Ñ” heading. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2068" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#2068</xref> Add support for n-tilde in Spanish index </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>References to external code samples are now resolved properly when <codeph>@coderef</codeph> attributes
              target non-XML resources and the output directory is shifted by setting the
                <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter to <option>3</option>. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2044" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#2044</xref> Non-XML coderef fails on outer context </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Warnings for deprecated templates are now displayed with the correct message prefix:
                <codeph>DOTX</codeph>. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2043" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#2043</xref> Warning for deprecated templates fails </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Maintenance Release 2.1.1</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1.1 includes the following bug fixes:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Whitespace in <codeph>&lt;image></codeph> elements is now ignored in PDF output to prevent errors when
              rendering XSL:FO. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1985" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1985</xref> XEP&#xA0;error: Element 'fo:external-graphic' must be empty</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Any proportional table column widths expressed in the CALS table model as "*" are now normalized to the
              equivalent "1*" value to prevent errors while generating XHTML output. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1978" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1978</xref> colwidth="*" causes Fatal Error! Cannot convert string "" to a double </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>In DITA Open Toolkit 2.0.1, the line ending characters in shell files were inadvertently changed to
              Windows (CRLF) line endings. The correct UNIX (LF) line endings have now been restored.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1954" format="html" scope="external"
                    >#1954</xref> bin/ant throws errors when executed in Ubuntu shell </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Feature requests and changes</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1 includes the following new features and changes:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>In PDF output, inline <codeph>&lt;codeph></codeph> elements in topic titles now inherit the font size
              from the surrounding title text. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1874" format="html" scope="external">1874</xref>
                  Codephrase used in topic title has very small font </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Image metadata processing has been refactored to improve the processing speed by determining width and
              height without reading the entire image into memory. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1883" format="html" scope="external">1883</xref>
                  Faster implementation for ImgUtils.getWidth/getHeight </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p> Obsolete CHM configuration files have been removed from the PDF2 plugin. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1897" format="html" scope="external">1897</xref>
                  DITA OT 2.1.dev chm properties folder in org.dita.pdf2 </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The code for the <option>troff</option> transformation has been refactored into two separate steps to
              enable re-use in other plain-text—based transformation types. The first step generates an abstract syntax
              tree with div/span syntax, and the second takes that intermediate format and creates troff output. Two new
              extension points are available to override the processing performed in each step: <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.troff-ast</codeph></dt>
                  <dd>Overrides the intermediate block-and-phrase format generated as input to troff processing.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.troff</codeph></dt>
                  <dd>Overrides the XSL that converts block-and-phrase intermediate markup into troff. </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
              <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1910" format="html" scope="external">1910</xref>
                  Refactor troff code to be usable for other text-like transform types </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>Milestone 1 included the following new features and changes:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>The <codeph>chapterBody</codeph> XSL template mode has been refactored to create additional HTML5 groups
              in the generated HTML <codeph>&lt;body></codeph> element. </p>
            <p>DITA topics are now mapped to the HTML5 <codeph>&lt;article></codeph> element, DITA
                <codeph>&lt;section></codeph> to <codeph>&lt;section></codeph>, and DITA <codeph>&lt;fig></codeph> to
                <codeph>&lt;figure></codeph>. </p>
            <p>HTML5 <codeph>@aria-labelledby</codeph> accessibility attributes are also generated to associate each
              article with its heading. This helps to improve the accessibility and interoperability of HTML output by
              providing structural information to assistive technologies such as screen readers. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1179" format="html" scope="external">1179</xref>
                  Added HTML generation extension for body content</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Additional file formats referenced from <codeph>&lt;image></codeph> elements are now copied to output.
              Any references that are not DITA, DITA map, or image, are now treated as resources and also copied, so you
              no longer need extra <codeph>&lt;copy></codeph> operations in your project build scripts to include such
              assets in output. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1687" format="html" scope="external">1687</xref>
                  More recognized default resource extensions in the plugins base</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>DITA-OT now fails with a fatal error (DOTA013F) if a specified .ditaval filter file is not available.
              This ensures that unexpected output is not generated if the filter file is missing or invalid. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1703" format="html" scope="external">1703</xref>
                  Link to missing DITAVAL file should show a relevant error code in the console</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The <parmname>generate-debug-attributes</parmname> and <parmname>processing-mode</parmname> configuration
              options have been moved to runtime properties, so you can now pass these parameters at build time to
              specify whether the <codeph>@xtrf</codeph> and <codeph>@xtrc</codeph> debugging attributes should be
              generated, and how the DITA-OT handles errors and error recovery. For more information, see <xref
                href="../parameters/parameters-base.dita#base">common parameters</xref>.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1799" format="html" scope="external">1799</xref>
                  Move configuration options to runtime properties</li>
              </ul></p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The deprecated Java command line tool has been removed in favor of the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command
              introduced in DITA-OT 2.0. </p>
            <p>If you previously generated output via a Java command sequence such as
              <codeblock><cmdname>java</cmdname> -jar lib/dost.jar /i:<varname>input-file</varname> /transtype:<varname>transformation-type</varname> /<varname>parameter-name</varname>:<varname>value</varname></codeblock>
              you should now use the following syntax instead: <codeblock><cmdname>dita</cmdname> -f <varname>transformation-type</varname> -i <varname>input-file</varname> -o <varname>output-dir</varname></codeblock>
              <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1800" format="html" scope="external">1800</xref>
                  Remove old Java command line tool </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The custom <codeph>FileUtils</codeph> code used to handle input and output in earlier versions of DITA-OT
              has been replaced with the <xref href="http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-io/" format="html"
                scope="external">Apache Commons IO</xref> utilities library.<ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1803" format="html" scope="external">1803</xref>
                  Use Commons IO</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Support for the <parmname>args.odt.img.embed</parmname> parameter has been removed from OpenDocument
              format transformations.</p>
            <p>The previous default behavior was to embed images as Base64-encoded text, but editors do not use this as
              a default. Instead, office packages such as LibreOffice will convert embedded images into linked images on
              opening and saving an ODT file. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1832" format="html" scope="external">1832</xref>
                  Remove support for args.odt.img.embed</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Keydef processing has been removed from the XHTML rendering code </p>
            <p>Keys are now resolved in one preprocessing step, whereas in earlier versions of DITA-OT, the XHTML code
              returned to the <filepath>keydef.xml</filepath> file to look up targets for phrase elements and pull in
              text when needed. This change affects non-linking elements that can't take <codeph>@href</codeph>
              attributes, such as <codeph>&lt;ph></codeph>, <codeph>&lt;keyword></codeph>, <codeph>&lt;cite></codeph>,
                <codeph>&lt;dt></codeph>, <codeph>&lt;term></codeph>, and <codeph>&lt;indexterm></codeph> (when
                <codeph>$INDEXSHOW</codeph> is active). <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1837" format="html" scope="external">1837</xref>
                  Remove keydef processing from XHTML rendering code </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>A new <codeph>dita.parser</codeph> extension point has been added to allow plug-ins to contribute a
              custom parser for DITA files. </p>
            <p>If a custom DITA parser is defined, the preprocessing routines will use it during the gen-list and
              debug-filter stages to output DITA XML. <ul>
                <li>
                  <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1847" format="html" scope="external">1847</xref>
                  Extension-point for custom DITA parsers </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <ul>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1513" format="html" scope="external">1513</xref>
            Suspected memory leak in OT bug preprocess</li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1694" format="html" scope="external">1694</xref>
            Cannot convert string to double</li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1854" format="html" scope="external">1854</xref>
            integrator.xml should also load the necessary "commons-io.jar" </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1870" format="html" scope="external">1870</xref>
            PDF2 output plugin fails rendering tables </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1872" format="html" scope="external">1872</xref>
            Link to index term repeats itself </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1877" format="html" scope="external">1877</xref>
            Searchtitle Incorrectly Used for HTML Title </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1888" format="html" scope="external">1888</xref>
            build.xml help target documentation is incorrect ant interface </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1889" format="html" scope="external">1889</xref>
            @class missing from choicetable XHTML output </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1890" format="html" scope="external">1890</xref>
            properties table XHTML output </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1894" format="html" scope="external">1894</xref> Fix
            unitless length-to-pixels </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1921" format="html" scope="external">1921</xref>
            Error reported during flagging </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1922" format="html" scope="external">1922</xref>
            Index continued markers don't work if both primary and its secondary entries continue </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1927" format="html" scope="external">1927</xref> In
            the key() function, the node supplied in the third argument (or the context node if absent) must be in a
            tree whose root is a document node </li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1932" format="html" scope="external">1932</xref>
            when running ./dita, console shows "No such file or directory" when directory contains spaces</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Milestone 1 provided fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1415" format="html" scope="external">1415</xref>
            Filtering doesn't support default for rev flagging</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1840" format="html" scope="external">1840</xref>
            Keyref processing doesn't use only first keyword or term</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1849" format="html" scope="external">1849</xref> Some
            XSLT XPaths do not properly use the @class attribute to select elems</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Maintenance Release 2.0.1</title>
        <note>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.1 also included the following bug fixes that were
          released earlier this year with maintenance version 2.0.1.</note>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1744" format="html" scope="external">#1744</xref>
            copy-to attribute not processed correctly (error DOTX008E) in XHTML transtype on a topicref included in a
            child map</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1790" format="html" scope="external">#1790</xref> FO:
            Xref processing does not handle case of key with no remote resource or link text</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1806" format="html" scope="external">#1806</xref> IDs
            are not preserved on &lt;bodydiv&gt; element</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1808" format="html" scope="external">#1808</xref>
            DITA-OT 2.0: PDF bookmarks (TOC, index) not in language indicated in source files</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1810" format="html" scope="external">#1810</xref>
            DITA-OT 2.0: typo in PDF-plugin, xsl/fo/toc.xsl ("boookmap")</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1811" format="html" scope="external">#1811</xref>
            Filtering doesn't support @deliveryTarget</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1813" format="html" scope="external">#1813</xref>
            Mappull step fails with nested concept</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1814" format="html" scope="external">#1814</xref> Task
            with links and nested task fails in XHTML</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1815" format="html" scope="external">#1815</xref>
            Convert String to double Error message when we try to generate pdf</li>
          <li>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1826" format="html" scope="external">#1826</xref> OT
            2.0: Map with subject scheme and non-below map fails</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  <!--
  <reference id="limitations">
    <title>Limitations</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="infotexture">Add info on any significant open issues, caveats or known limitations in DITA markup support.</draft-comment>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  -->
</reference>
