<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID" rev="2.4">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 2.4.6 Release Notes</title>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 2.4.6 is a maintenance release that fixes issues reported in DITA-OT 2.4, which
      includes <ph conref="#highlights/summary"/>.</shortdesc>
    <p>Issue numbers correspond to the tracking number in the <ph>
        <xref keyref="dita-ot-issues">GitHub issues tracker</xref></ph>.</p>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="v246">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.4.6</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4.6 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2212">
            <p>Earlier versions of DITA-OT would fail with XSLT errors when processing invalid table markup.</p>
            <p>The toolkit is now more lenient when handling column settings that do not match the table contents,
              including:
              <ul>
                <li><xmlelement>table</xmlelement> elements that contain incorrect <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement>
                  entries</li>
                <li><xmlelement>tgroup</xmlelement> elements with incorrect <xmlatt>cols</xmlatt> attribute values</li>
                <li><xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> elements with invalid <xmlatt>relcolwidth</xmlatt>
                  attributes</li>
                <li><xmlelement>sthead</xmlelement> header rows with the wrong number of cells</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p>Processing will now continue in these cases, though output may not be generated entirely as expected.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2212" scope="external" format="html">#2212</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2651" scope="external" format="html">#2651</xref>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li id="2549">DITA-OT 2.4 failed to process maps with multiple references to a single topic file that contains
            key references. Processing has been revised to properly handle duplicate topics within key scopes.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2549" scope="external" format="html">#2549</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2650">Several XSL stylesheets used incorrect <xmlatt>extension-element-prefixes</xmlatt> attributes,
            which have been replaced with <xmlatt>exclude-result-prefixes</xmlatt> to ensure no unnecessary namespace
            nodes are copied to the result tree.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2650" scope="external" format="html">#2650</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The documentation includes minor
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/2.4.5...2.4.6" scope="external" format="html">
                changes</xref> with
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/milestone/24?closed=1" scope="external" format="html"
                >corrections and improvements</xref> to existing topics.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.4.5...2.4.6" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v245">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.4.5</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4.5 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2559">DITA-OT 2.4 reported errors when filtering HTML5 output with a DITAVAL file and failed to
            preserve attributes that were set to <option>passthrough</option> via the <xmlatt>action</xmlatt> attribute.
            The order in which properties are initialized has been corrected and profiling conditions are now propagated
            to corresponding <xmlatt>data-</xmlatt> attributes in HTML5 output to support filtering.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2559" scope="external" format="html">#2559</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2598" scope="external" format="html">#2598</xref>, <!--
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2611" scope="external" format="html">#2611</xref>-->
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2627" scope="external" format="html">#2627</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2567">Remaining XHTML property references in the HTML5 transformation have been corrected to point to
            their HTML5 equivalents.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2567" scope="external" format="html">#2567</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2570">In DITA-OT 2.4, the HTML5 transformation failed to process topics with tables when the
              <parmname>args.html5.classattr</parmname> parameter was set to <option>no</option>. Processing has been
            updated to ensure that tables are handled correctly when the DITA class ancestry is not passed to output.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2570" scope="external" format="html">#2570</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2622">The HTML5 transformation has been updated to preserve the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute on
            ordered lists when <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> contain a <xmlelement>stepsection</xmlelement> element.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2622" scope="external" format="html">#2622</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2631" scope="external" format="html">#2631</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2623">Earlier versions of DITA-OT ignored any <xmlelement>navref</xmlelement> and
              <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> elements that were declared as direct children of referenced submaps. The
            map reference implementation has been updated to preserve these elements as-is when resolving nested maps.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2623" scope="external" format="html">#2623</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2628">HTML5 processing has been corrected to respect the <parmname>args.outext</parmname> setting.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2628" scope="external" format="html">#2628</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2629">The Finnish translations for attention and warning notes have been corrected to “Huomio” and
            “Varoitus”, respectively.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2629" scope="external" format="html">#2629</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2636">DITA-OT 2.4.4 introduced a regression that prevented table cells from spanning multiple columns.
            Table processing has been corrected to produce the proper table structure.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2636" scope="external" format="html">#2636</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The documentation includes minor
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/2.4.4...2.4.5" scope="external" format="html">
                changes</xref> with
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/milestone/23?closed=1" scope="external" format="html"
                >corrections and improvements</xref> to existing topics.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.4.4...2.4.5" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v244">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.4.4</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4.4 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2564">DITA-OT 2.4 threw errors if non-XML DITA topics (such as Markdown files) were referenced in DITA
            maps. The source format information is now retained to ensure these topics are processed correctly when the
            <xref href="https://github.com/jelovirt/dita-ot-markdown" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT Markdown
              plug-in</xref> is installed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2564" scope="external" format="html">#2564</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2573">In HTML5 transformations, DITA-OT 2.4 threw XSLT warnings if a topic included copyright metadata
            in the prolog. The redundant templates have been removed to ensure that copyright metadata is correctly
            processed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2573" scope="external" format="html">#2573</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2574" scope="external" format="html">#2574</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2610" scope="external" format="html">#2610</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2577">In earlier versions of DITA-OT, the HTML5 transformation generated an empty
              <xmlelement>nav</xmlelement> element for table-of-contents navigation when the
              <parmname>nav-toc</parmname> parameter was set to <option>partial</option> and the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
            attribute for a topic reference was set <option>to-content</option>. Processing has been updated to produce
            valid navigation links with to-content chunks.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2577" scope="external" format="html">#2577</xref>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2578" scope="external" format="html">#2578</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2584">If an index term was defined in a map, a redundant empty citation was created in the index when
            generating PDF output with Apache FOP. Index processing has been revised to ensure that links to index terms
            defined in maps work properly for FOP.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2584" scope="external" format="html">#2584</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2589" scope="external" format="html">#2589</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2586">When reading the <filepath>local.properties</filepath> file, the Ant <codeph>basedir</codeph>
            property is set to the root directory of the DITA-OT installation. This change ensures that the
              <filepath>local.properties</filepath> file in the installation directory can be read consistently, even in
            cases when custom build scripts override the <codeph>basedir</codeph> property beforehand.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2586" scope="external" format="html">#2586</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2602">When generating PDF output, earlier versions of DITA-OT applied the
              <xmlatt>keep-with-next.within-line</xmlatt> attribute to list item labels, which is not valid on
              <xmlelement>fo:list-item-label</xmlelement> formatting objects. The list label attribute sets have been
            revised to generate valid XSL:FO output.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2602" scope="external" format="html">#2602</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2603">Parameter processing in variable resolution has been adjusted to ensure that nested
              <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> elements are taken into account when parameters are passed as a document
            node.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2603" scope="external" format="html">#2603</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2605">The command-line help and documentation for the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command mistakenly
            included the equals sign in the descriptions of the <option>--install</option> and
              <option>--uninstall</option> options. The correct syntax separates these options from their values with a
            space instead. To install a single plug-in from a local ZIP file, for example, use
              <cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--install</parmname> <varname>filename</varname>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2605" scope="external" format="html">#2605</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The documentation includes minor
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/2.4.3...2.4.4" scope="external" format="html">
                changes</xref> with
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/milestone/22?closed=1" scope="external" format="html"
                >corrections and improvements</xref> to existing topics.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.4.3...2.4.4" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v243">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.4.3</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4.3 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="1525">In PDF output generated with earlier versions of DITA-OT and RenderX XEP, the
              <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> hierarchy for multilevel entries in the PDF index was not properly
            indented. Index term indentation has been corrected to properly reflect the entry hierarchy as authored in
            DITA source files.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1525" scope="external" format="html">#1525</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2038">In earlier versions of DITA-OT, specifying a relative path for the temporary directory on the
            command line would cause PDF processing to fail. DITA-OT now checks whether the
              <parmname>dita.temp.dir</parmname> property is set to an absolute path and responds with an error message
            otherwise.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2038" scope="external" format="html">#2038</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2522">In certain cases, DITA-OT 2.4 generated broken links in PDF output for related topics and
            reported “unresolved internal destination” warnings in the console when processing topic references with the
              <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute set to <option>family</option>. Link rewrite processing has
            been corrected to ensure that links are generated properly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2522" scope="external" format="html">#2522</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2555">Default settings for several parameters have been removed from the
              <filepath>configuration.properties</filepath> file.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2555" scope="external" format="html">#2555</xref>
            <p>Values for these parameters can be passed as usual to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command or included in
              build scripts:
              <ul>
                <li><parmname>default.language</parmname></li>
                <li><parmname>generate-debug-attributes</parmname></li>
                <li><parmname>processing-mode</parmname></li>
              </ul></p>
          </li>
          <li id="2563">In previous versions of DITA-OT, the HTML5 transformation generated
              <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> output with column widths specified in <xmlelement>col</xmlelement>
            elements as direct children of the <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element. A
              <xmlelement>colgroup</xmlelement> wrapper element has been added for compatibility with the HTML5
            standard.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2563" scope="external" format="html">#2563</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.4.2...2.4.3" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The DITA-OT 2.4.3 documentation includes corrections and improvements to existing topics, along with new
          content on
          <xref keyref="configuration-properties"/>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v242">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.4.2</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4.2 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="1885">DITA-OT 2.0 threw a null pointer exception when producing Eclipse Help output from a bookmap
            with a <xmlelement>glossarylist</xmlelement> that referenced a composite <xmlelement>dita</xmlelement>
            topic. Processing has been updated to properly handle root <xmlelement>dita</xmlelement> elements or any
            other elements without <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attributes.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1885" scope="external" format="html">#1885</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2542">HTML5 output generated with DITA-OT 2.4.1 included spurious namespace attributes for
              <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> elements. The extra result
            prefixes (<xmlnsname>ditamsg</xmlnsname>, <xmlnsname>dita2html</xmlnsname> and
              <xmlnsname>related-links</xmlnsname>) have been excluded to ensure they no longer appear in output files.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2542" scope="external" format="html">#2542</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2547">Earlier versions of DITA-OT failed to ignore empty props specialization attributes during the
            filtering process. Processing has been updated to treat any empty attributes specialized from
              <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> like empty default profiling attributes such as
              <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt><codeph>=""</codeph>, which are ignored.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2547" scope="external" format="html">#2547</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2548">The <codeph>xml-apis-ext</codeph> library that FOP depends on to render SVG images was missing
            in DITA-OT 2.4. The distribution package has been updated to provide support for SVG images in PDF output.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2548" scope="external" format="html">#2548</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2551">If an input map contained topic references with duplicate <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute
            values, earlier versions of DITA-OT failed to generate additional output topics. Processing now applies the
              <parmname>force-unique</parmname> parameter to ensure that unique output files are created for each
            instance of a resource when a map contains multiple references to a single topic.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2551" scope="external" format="html">#2551</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2554">Support for the <parmname>args.breadcrumbs</parmname> parameter provided in earlier versions of
            DITA-OT was never fully implemented and has been removed. HTML customizations that rely on the XSLT
              <parmname>BREADCRUMBS</parmname> parameter will need to re-implement this functionality in custom plug-in
            code.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2554" scope="external" format="html">#2554</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.4.1...2.4.2" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v241">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.4.1</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4.1 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2520">In DITA-OT 2.3 and 2.4, setting the <parmname>force-unique</parmname> parameter to
              <option>true</option> had no effect. Processing has been corrected to properly generate the copy-to
            attributes that ensure unique file names for each instance of a resource when a map contains multiple
            references to a single topic.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2520" scope="external" format="html">#2520</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2524">HTML5: In DITA-OT 2.4, the text content of table cells was partially propagated to the CSS
              <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute. Table processing has been updated to remove the legacy XHTML CSS class
            mode and ensure that <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute values are generated correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2524" scope="external" format="html">#2524</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2526">Saxon 9.7.0.11 reported an error when producing output from DITA content: <msgph>The context
              item for axis step ./@class is absent</msgph>. This was resolved by modifying the
              <codeph>$localclass</codeph> variable in the <codeph>output-message</codeph> template to use the
              <codeph>$ctx</codeph> context variable as a parent.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2526" scope="external" format="html">#2526</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2535" scope="external" format="html">#2535</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2529">Earlier versions of DITA-OT did not correctly override the default <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute values for topic references with values from the key definition. Keyref
            processing has been updated to properly handle scope and format definition for non-local non-DITA targets.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2529" scope="external" format="html">#2529</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2537">In earlier versions of DITA-OT, the <codeph>dita.xsl.html5.cover</codeph> extension point did
            not respond to overrides declared in custom plug-ins. The extension point has now been moved to the template
            file to ensure that it can be overridden as intended.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2537" scope="external" format="html">#2537</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2539">In cases where a single topic is used in multiple key scopes (and copies of the topic are
            created), earlier versions of DITA-OT used the same target for key references to both key scopes. Key
            targets are now rewritten to point to the new resource to ensure that duplicate link targets in key scopes
            are correctly resolved.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2539" scope="external" format="html">#2539</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.4...2.4.1" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The DITA-OT 2.4.1 documentation includes corrections and improvements to existing topics, along with new
          content.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="html-customization"/> provides examples that illustrate various approaches for customizing
            HTML-based output, including:
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="html-customization-navigation"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="html-customization-plugin-bundle-css"/></li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="languages"/> provides a common overview of languages supported for PDF and HTML-based output
            formats.</li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="third-party-software"/> lists bundled software components with version and license information
            for each library.</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have changed
          since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 requires the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) version <keyword
            keyref="tool.java.version"/> or later.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="highlights">
    <title>Release Highlights</title>
    <shortdesc>DITA-OT 2.4 includes <ph id="summary">Apache FOP <ph keyref="tool.fop.version"/>, a new long-form syntax
        for <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command options, and additional code referencing extensions</ph>.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
      <section id="1958">
        <title>Apache FOP <ph keyref="tool.fop.version"/></title>
        <p>DITA-OT 2.4 bundles the latest version of <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP (Formatting
          Objects Processor).
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1958" scope="external" format="html">#1958</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2399" scope="external" format="html">#2399</xref></p>
        <p>FOP <ph keyref="tool.fop.version"/> builds on the OpenType CFF font support added in FOP 2.0, with additional
          font support and enhancements for PDF accessibility, including PDF/UA (PDF/Universal Accessibility) and
          PDF/A-3.</p>
        <p>For details on recent changes in FOP, see the <cite>Release Notes</cite> for versions
          <xref keyref="fop-20-rn">2.0</xref> and
          <xref keyref="fop-20-rn">2.1</xref>.</p>
        <note>
          <p>To conserve memory, accessible PDF output is disabled by default in FOP 2.1. To generate accessible PDFs
            from DITA-OT, set the <parmname>args.fo.userconfig</parmname> parameter and include the
              <option>&lt;accessibility>true&lt;/accessibility></option> option in your custom FOP configuration
            file.</p>
          <p>For more information, see
            <xref keyref="fop-accessibility"/>.</p>
        </note>
      </section>
      <section id="2422">
        <title>New long-form syntax for <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command options</title>
        <p>All <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command options can now be specified with a GNU-style option keyword preceded by
          two hyphens. For example:</p>
        <p>
          <codeblock><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--input</parmname>=<filepath>userguide.ditamap</filepath> <parmname>--format</parmname>=<option>html5</option></codeblock>
        </p>
        <p>DITA-OT parameters can now be passed to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command with this same syntax:
            <parmname>--parameter</parmname>=<varname>value</varname>.</p>
        <p>When set with this method, properties are validated against the toolkit’s plug-in configuration. An error
          message appears if a property is not recognized or if an enumerated property value is invalid.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2422" scope="external" format="html">#2422</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2492" scope="external" format="html">#2492</xref>
          <note type="attention">Unix-style single-letter options (preceded by a single hyphen) are also available in
            some cases for backwards compatibility. The X-Toolkit–style single-hyphen keyword variants supported by
            previous releases (such as <parmname>-input</parmname>) have been deprecated and may be removed in an
            upcoming release.</note></p>
      </section>
      <section id="2469">
        <title>Extended code reference processing</title>
        <p>DITA-OT 2.4 provides additional support for extracting a range of lines from code references based on the
          content of the target file. Instead of specifying line numbers, you can now also select lines to include in
          the code reference by specifying keywords (or “<term>tokens</term>”) that appear in the referenced file.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2469" scope="external" format="html">#2469</xref>
        </p>
        <div conref="../reference/extended-functionality.dita#code-reference/coderef-by-content"/>
        <note conref="../reference/extended-functionality.dita#code-reference/coderef-by-content-tip"/>
        <p>For more information, see
          <xref href="../reference/extended-functionality.dita#code-reference"/>.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="2405">
        <title>Standalone <option>HTML5</option> plug-in</title>
        <div conref="../reference/migrating-to-2.4.dita#migrating-to-2.4/24-html5-split"/>
        <p>
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2405" scope="external" format="html">#2405</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2511" scope="external" format="html">#2511</xref>
        </p>
      </section>

      <section id="1542" conref="../reference/migrating-to-2.4.dita#migrating-to-2.4/24-legacy-plugin-removal"/>
      <section>
        <p>
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1542" scope="external" format="html">#1542</xref></p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="issues">
    <title>Resolved issues</title>
    <shortdesc>In addition to the highlights mentioned above, DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 includes the following
      changes.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>

      <!--
      <section id="features">
        <title>Features</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 includes the following new features:</p>
        <ul>
          <li/>
        </ul>
      </section>
      -->

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements and changes</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 includes the following enhancements and changes to existing features:</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2026">Move to Java 8
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2026" scope="external" format="html">#2026</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1245">TM output
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1245" scope="external" format="html">#1245</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2404" scope="external" format="html">#2404</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2512">Bug in "dita-utilities.xsl" getVariable when called from string context
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2512" scope="external" format="html">#2512</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2513" scope="external" format="html">#2513</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2503">HTML5 generates duplicate class attributes
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2503" scope="external" format="html">#2503</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2502">Use Sass <codeph>// comment</codeph> syntax for partials copyrights
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2502" scope="external" format="html">#2502</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2499">Change HTML5 to use libsass instead of Compass
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2499" scope="external" format="html">#2499</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2471">Add sign-off requirement to contribution
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2471" scope="external" format="html">#2471</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2467">Add copyright based on Git history
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2467" scope="external" format="html">#2467</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2465">Run dita command with only properties file
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2465" scope="external" format="html">#2465</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2468" scope="external" format="html">#2468</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2462">Map temporary files to source/result files using job configuration
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2462" scope="external" format="html">#2462</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2453">Use job mapper when transforming topics to final output
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2453" scope="external" format="html">#2453</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2437">Move chunk target detection to chunk module
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2437" scope="external" format="html">#2437</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="2419">Drop empty fo:inline elements
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2419" scope="external" format="html">#2419</xref>
          </li>
          -->
          <li id="2412">Replace named template with mode for easy override of static content
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2412" scope="external" format="html">#2412</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2151">Remove lax integration process
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2151" scope="external" format="html">#2151</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2394">Fix error when <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> contains <xmlelement>tm</xmlelement> #2303
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2394" scope="external" format="html">#2394</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2347">Build fails when <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> in <xmlelement>relcell</xmlelement> has child
            elements
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2347" scope="external" format="html">#2347</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2390" scope="external" format="html">#2390</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 2.3..` -->
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to the core toolkit, not docs.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Robert D. Anderson</li>
          <li>Eliot Kimber</li>
          <li>Eero Helenius</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.3...2.4" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="docs">
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 includes corrections and improvements to existing topics,
          along with new content.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Like the generated
            <xref keyref="dita-ot-params"/> and
            <xref keyref="messages"/> topics, a new
            <xref keyref="extension-points-by-plugin"/> section is now generated from the installed DITA-OT plug-ins to
            provide an overview of the extension points supported by each plug-in.</li>
          <li>A new
            <xref keyref="features-in-docs"/> topic provides examples of how the project documentation uses various
            recent DITA features.</li>
          <li>A new topic provides information on
            <xref keyref="migrating-to-2-4">Migrating to release 2.4</xref>.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on documentation issues resolved in DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/issues?q=milestone%3A2.4+is%3Aclosed" format="html"
            scope="external">2.4 milestone</xref> in the documentation repository.</p>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.4 includes
          <xref keyref="docs-contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to docs, not to the core toolkit.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Mark Giffin</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of documentation changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/2.3...2.4" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
</reference>
