<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID" rev="2.3">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 2.3.3 Release Notes</title>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 2.3.3 is a maintenance release that fixes issues reported in DITA-OT 2.3, which
      includes <ph conref="#highlights/summary"/>.</shortdesc>
    <p>Issue numbers correspond to the tracking number in the <ph>
        <xref keyref="dita-ot-issues">GitHub issues tracker</xref></ph>.</p>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="v233">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.3.3</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3.3 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2440">Lax processing now tolerates hyperlink references with leading or trailing whitespace in the
              <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute value, such as:
            <codeblock>&lt;xref href=" http://www.example.com" format="html"&gt;</codeblock> Earlier versions of DITA-OT
            would convert the space to its URL-encoded equivalent <codeph>%20</codeph> and fail with an error. The URI
            validation routines have been modified to issue a warning and continue processing in lax mode, but still
            fail in strict mode.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2440" scope="external" format="html">#2440</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2488" scope="external" format="html">#2488</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2017">In certain cases, earlier versions of DITA-OT resolved relative paths to related links from the
            temporary directory rather than from the input DITA map file. Processing has been modified to ensure that
            links are generated correctly regardless of the target file location.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2017" scope="external" format="html">#2017</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2444" scope="external" format="html">#2444</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2458">Several errors in the DITA 1.3 <filepath>subjectScheme</filepath> catalog file were corrected to
            ensure that the module files and entities for the DITA Map Subject Classification Domain are properly
            resolved. Corresponding errata have been submitted to OASIS to ensure the fixes are applied to the official
            catalogs.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2458" scope="external" format="html">#2458</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2464">Related link processing has been adjusted to handle cases that generate empty related links
            groups.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2464" scope="external" format="html">#2464</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2470">The <codeph>mappull</codeph> preprocessing step that pulls content from referenced topics into
            maps has been updated to use the XML catalog to resolve external entity references to their locally cached
            equivalents.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2470" scope="external" format="html">#2470</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2474">In PDF output generated by earlier versions of DITA-OT, roman numerals were used to number pages
            in the Notices section, assuming notices are most commonly located in the front matter, which uses roman
            numbering by default. The toolkit now checks whether the <xmlelement>notices</xmlelement> element is inside
              <xmlelement>backmatter</xmlelement>, and uses arabic numbering as appropriate.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2474" scope="external" format="html">#2474</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2477">When processing topics with unsupported languages, DITA-OT erroneously claimed it couldn't find
            the language <codeph>en_us</codeph> rather than mentioning the unsupported language. The
              <msgnum>DOTX001W</msgnum> message now includes the original, most complete value of the ancestor language
            to assist in troubleshooting.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2477" scope="external" format="html">#2477</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2482">In DITA-OT 2.3.2, reference targets for link-like elements such as
              <xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement> in short descriptions were incorrectly calculated in some cases.
            Processing has been updated to ensure that links are correctly resolved by adjusting references as necessary
            to match the path to the target document.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2482" scope="external" format="html">#2482</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2486">The copy-to processing routine failed to update image paths, resulting in invalid references in
            topics copied to locations other than the original or peer directories. Processing has been updated to
            ensure that image references are adjusted as necessary to reflect the location of the referencing document.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2486" scope="external" format="html">#2486</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2487">PDF: Definitions for several missing localization variables have been added to the Finnish,
            Romanian, Russian, and Swedish strings files.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2487" scope="external" format="html">#2487</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.3.2...2.3.3" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v232">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.3.2</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3.2 included the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="1599">In earlier versions of DITA-OT, relative paths to cross-references from short descriptions were
            sometimes interpreted incorrectly if the source and target topics were located in different directories. New
            XSL functions now ensure that these references are correctly resolved.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1599" scope="external" format="html">#1599</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2413">In DITA-OT 2.3, the HTML5 transtype failed on topics with tables when the
              <parmname>args.xhtml.classattr</parmname> parameter was set to <option>no</option>. Processing has been
            updated to handle these cases and correctly exclude the DITA class ancestry information when publishing
            HTML5 output.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2413" scope="external" format="html">#2413</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2424" scope="external" format="html">#2424</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2439">In DITA-OT 2.3, the PDF2 build target dependency list contained redundant entries. The
            integration process has been corrected to remove the duplicates.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2439" scope="external" format="html">#2439</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2451" scope="external" format="html">#2451</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2441">The script that checks for Antenna House installations has been updated to include installation
            paths with spaces as used by recent versions of Antenna House for Windows –
              <filepath>C:\Program&#xA0;Files\Antenna&#xA0;House</filepath> and the (x86) equivalent.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2441" scope="external" format="html">#2441</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.3.1...2.3.2" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v231">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.3.1</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3.1 included the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2395">The distribution package for the 2.3 release included several unnecessary subfolders and
            appended the Git commit ID to the version number in the <filepath>lib/configuration.properties</filepath>
            file. The extra directories have been removed and the <codeph>otversion</codeph> in the properties file has
            been corrected.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2395" scope="external" format="html">#2395</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2398">In DITA-OT 2.3, temporary file folders specified via the <parmname>dita.temp.dir</parmname>
            parameter were interpreted as relative to the folder where the Java process started. This regression has
            been fixed to ensure that temporary folders are once again interpreted as relative to the base directory of
            the Ant process as in previous toolkit versions.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2398" scope="external" format="html">#2398</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2400">On Windows, the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command would not run correctly if the name of a folder
            in the path to the DITA-OT 2.3 installation directory included spaces. The <filepath>dita.bat</filepath>
            script has been modified to support installation paths with spaces.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2400" scope="external" format="html">#2400</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2401">The DITA 1.3 DTD, Schema, and RNG files have been updated to the final "OASIS Standard" copy;
            this change updates the OASIS link and date in many header files, but does not affect how the grammar files
            work. In addition, the catalog has been updated to restore two entries that will eventually be shipped in
            the DITA 1.3 Errata from OASIS.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2401" scope="external" format="html">#2401</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2408">Fixed an issue where some front-matter sections, such as <xmlelement>draftintro</xmlelement> and
              <xmlelement>bookabstract</xmlelement>, caused page numbering to switch back and forth between Roman
            numerals and body-style Arabic numerals.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2408" scope="external" format="html">#2408</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="2413">HTML5 transtype fails on topics with tables when args.xhtml.classattr=no
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2413" scope="external" format="html">#2413</xref>
          </li>
          -->
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.3...2.3.1" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have changed
          since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 requires the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) version <keyword
            keyref="tool.java.version"/> or later.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="highlights">
    <title>Release Highlights</title>
    <shortdesc>DITA-OT 2.3 includes <ph id="summary">enhanced HTML5 output, new language support and additional
        internationalization improvements</ph>.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <title>Single .zip distribution package</title>
        <p id="2269">DITA Open Toolkit now ships as a single distribution package in a <filepath>.zip</filepath>
          archive, as modern versions of Linux and OS X no longer have the file permission issues that originally
          required the additional <filepath>.tar.gz</filepath> distribution package.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2269" scope="external" format="html">#2269</xref>
        </p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Enhanced HTML5 output</title>
        <p id="2239">The <option>HTML5</option> table processing has been refactored to use valid HTML5 markup, HTML5
          best practices, and better CSS properties for styling.
          <xref href="https://en.bem.info/methodology/" format="html" scope="external">BEM</xref>-style CSS classes are
          now generated with the name of the containing element, the name of the attribute, and the value of the
          attribute.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2239" scope="external" format="html">#2239</xref>
        </p>
        <p id="2195-2196">Common CSS files are now generated using separate modules for each DITA domain, implemented as
          <xref keyref="sass-lang"/> partials to better support extensions with CSS frameworks, custom plug-ins and
          future toolkit versions.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2195" scope="external" format="html">#2195</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2196" scope="external" format="html">#2196</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2218" scope="external" format="html">#2218</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2369" scope="external" format="html">#2369</xref>
        </p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>New language support</title>
        <p id="2137">The <option>PDF</option> transformation has been extended to support additional languages with
          localized strings files and index collation.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2137" scope="external" format="html">#2137</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2344" scope="external" format="html">#2344</xref>
          <ul>
            <li>Belarusian</li>
            <li>Bulgarian</li>
            <li>Chinese (traditional), with limited support for index sorting</li>
            <li>Estonian</li>
            <li>Greek</li>
            <li>Hindi</li>
            <li>Indonesian</li>
            <li>Kazakh</li>
            <li>Korean</li>
            <li>Lithuanian</li>
            <li>Macedonian</li>
            <li>Malay</li>
            <li>Serbian (Cyrillic script)</li>
            <li>Serbian (Latin script)</li>
            <li>Thai</li>
            <li>Ukrainian</li>
            <li>Urdu</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
        <p><option>PDF</option>, <option>HTML</option>, and <option>XHTML</option> transformation types have been
          updated to support Bosnian, Montenegrin, and Vietnamese, including localized string files and (for
            <option>PDF</option>) index collation.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2150" scope="external" format="html">#2150</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2360" scope="external" format="html">#2360</xref>
        </p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Internationalization improvements</title>
        <p>Along with the new languages supported by the <option>PDF</option> and <option>HTML</option> transformations,
          DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 provides additional internationalization improvements, including:
          <ul>
            <li id="2267">When testing for bi-directional content, more languages are now recognized as right-to-left.
              No additional support is added (for example, generated strings for new languages will appear using the
              DITA-OT default language), but otherwise content will use the proper direction by default. Arabic, Urdu,
              and Hebrew are already recognized by default; this change recognizes an additional 14 languages.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1710" scope="external" format="html">#1710</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2267" scope="external" format="html">#2267</xref>
            </li>
            <li id="2279">PDF: Additional fallback fonts have been specified in the
                <filepath>font-mappings.xml</filepath> file to provide better out-of-the-box support for Asian
              characters.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2279" scope="external" format="html">#2279</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2280" scope="external" format="html">#2280</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2296" scope="external" format="html">#2296</xref>
            </li>
            <li id="2302">HTML: Earlier releases of DITA-OT 2.x generated a <xmlatt>style</xmlatt> attribute with
                <codeph>text-align:left</codeph> on table cells, regardless of whether the <xmlatt>align</xmlatt>
              attribute was set in the source. This caused problems with right-to-left languages. The default entry
              alignment has been removed, so the values of the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>
              attributes on the root of the topic will be respected. (This allows the browser to infer the value for the
                <codeph>text-align</codeph> property from the parent elements/styles.)
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2302" scope="external" format="html">#2302</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2368" scope="external" format="html">#2368</xref>
            </li>
            <li id="2343">PDF: The Dutch variable file now includes translations for Glossary, List of tables, and List
              of figures. In addition, German, Italian, French, and Spanish have been updated to define missing
              variables, including one that previously resulted in a build error ("Table of Contents Notices").
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2131" scope="external" format="html">#2131</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2343" scope="external" format="html">#2343</xref>
            </li>
            <li id="2357">The DITA-OT configuration value <codeph>default.language</codeph> is now used as the default
              language in all output formats. The value ships as <codeph>en</codeph>, but can be changed in
                <filepath>configuration.properties</filepath> or specified as a parameter to the build. For HTML output,
              the default is now the closest specified language; if a document does not specify
                <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, <codeph>default.language</codeph> is used. For PDF output, the default is the
              closest specified language; if a document does not specify <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, the root map is
              used; if the root map does not specify <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, <codeph>default.language</codeph> is
              used.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1476" scope="external" format="html">#1476</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2201" scope="external" format="html">#2201</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2356" scope="external" format="html">#2356</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2357" scope="external" format="html">#2357</xref>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="issues">
    <title>Resolved issues</title>
    <shortdesc>In addition to the highlights mentioned above, DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 includes the following
      changes.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
      <section id="features">
        <title>Features</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 includes the following new features:</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="1116">The <codeph>args.eclipsehelp.toc</codeph> parameter for Eclipse Help, which has not worked
            properly for several releases after it was made obsolete in DITA-OT 1.3, has been removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1116" scope="external" format="html">#1116</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2354" scope="external" format="html">#2354</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1777">DITA 1.3: Initial support has been added for the <xmlatt>orient</xmlatt> attribute on
              <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> elements. These changes allow Antenna House Formatter to render tables in
            landscape mode when the <xmlatt>orient</xmlatt> attribute is set to <option>land</option>. A future release
            will provide extended support for multi-page landscape tables with additional rendering engines.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1777" scope="external" format="html">#1777</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2387" scope="external" format="html">#2387</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2130">To permit automated building and testing on any platform, the HTMLHelp version of the
            documentation is no longer included in the distribution package. An HTMLHelp version of the documentation
            can still be built on Windows using the downloaded distribution package.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2130" scope="external" format="html">#2130</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2144">SAX pipes can now be configured in Ant <xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement> tasks. This allows new
            tasks to take advantage of in-memory processing without the need to write out files to disk.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2144" scope="external" format="html">#2144</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2155">The process for generating topic headers in the <option>PDF</option> transformation type has
            been simplified to use a single template with <codeph>mode="insertTopicHeaderMarker"</codeph>. This reduces
            the amount of work needed to format titles differently in the header and body.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2155" scope="external" format="html">#2155</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2185">The <option>HTML5</option> transformation type supports two new extension points
              <codeph>dita.conductor.html5.param</codeph> and <codeph>dita.conductor.html5.toc.param</codeph>, allowing
            plugins to provide new parameters for HTML5 processing.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2185" scope="external" format="html">#2185</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2210">Processing for <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> has been moved out of the <codeph>gen-list</codeph>
            preprocessing module and into a separate step. This improves processing for
              <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that use <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2210" scope="external" format="html">#2210</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2230">The DITA-OT preprocessing step that reads images for information about height and width now
            supports reading dimension metadata from SVG images.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2230" scope="external" format="html">#2230</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2317">The <option>PDF</option> transformation type has been updated to support the
              <xmlatt>expanse</xmlatt> value "page" for elements that use the attribute. In addition, the
              <xmlelement>msgblock</xmlelement> element has been updated to support <xmlatt>frame</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>scale</xmlatt>, which generally appear on the same elements that use <xmlatt>expanse</xmlatt>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2317" scope="external" format="html">#2317</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2352" scope="external" format="html">#2352</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2359">Cross-references to footnotes now generate hyperlinks in PDF output.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2359" scope="external" format="html">#2359</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2364" scope="external" format="html">#2364</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 includes the following enhancements and changes to existing features:</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="1860">PDF: Information from the <filepath>README.txt</filepath> files in the
              <filepath>org.dita.pdf2</filepath> plugin have been moved to the “PDF plug-in structure” topic in the DITA
            Open Toolkit <cite>Developer Reference</cite>. Now that all useful information is available in the
            documentation, the <filepath>README.txt</filepath> files have been removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1860" scope="external" format="html">#1860</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1924">PDF: In earlier versions of DITA-OT, filtering out all rows from a
              <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> element resulted in invalid XSL-FO. When all rows are filtered out,
            the XSL-FO file now contains an empty (but valid) table so that processing can continue.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1924" scope="external" format="html">#1924</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1950" scope="external" format="html">#1950</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2122">Guava libraries are now used to simplify access to collections in Java code (among other
            things).
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2122" scope="external" format="html">#2122</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2133">HTML: The documentation for the <option>args.hdr</option> and <option>args.ftr</option> options
            now clarifies that header and footer files must be specified using an absolute path. The options have always
            required an absolute path, but the documentation for earlier releases did not include this requirement.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2133" scope="external" format="html">#2133</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2140">The <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command will now run using Java headless mode by default. This
            optimizes the use of system resources during a build and prevents the build process from stealing focus from
            other applications.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2140" scope="external" format="html">#2140</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2160">HTML: Static text for XHTML tables and figures (such as "Table 5") is now surrounded with a
              <xmlelement>span</xmlelement> element, making it easier to style or hide the static text using CSS. In
            addition, HTML5 output is updated to use semantic elements for figure and table captions.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2160" scope="external" format="html">#2160</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2177">Two members of the <codeph>AbstractPipelineModuleImpl</codeph> class have been marked as
            protected, to allow plugins to access them from derived classes.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2177" scope="external" format="html">#2177</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2179">PDF: The I18N Java and XSLT processing code has been merged into single task. This is not
            visible to most users of the PDF code, apart from a reduction in processing time. It also eliminates the
            need for a <filepath>stage3.fo</filepath> file in the temporary directory; instead,
              <filepath>topic.fo</filepath> is generated directly from <filepath>stage2.fo</filepath>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2179" scope="external" format="html">#2179</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2181">In a previous release, the HTML5 extension point <codeph>dita.conductor.html5.param</codeph> was
            declared but not implemented. The improper declaration was removed and the extension was properly
            implemented.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2181" scope="external" format="html">#2181</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2191">HTML: In previous releases, short descriptions in <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement> elements
            were rendered as division elements (<xmlelement>div</xmlelement>), rather than paragraphs
              (<xmlelement>p</xmlelement>). Processing has been revised to ensure that short descriptions are
            consistently rendered as paragraphs, regardless of whether they appear in <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>
            elements.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2191" scope="external" format="html">#2191</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2207">The order of the <codeph>chunk</codeph> and <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph> pre-processing
            stages has been switched so that <codeph>chunk</codeph> comes first. This ensures that metadata is properly
            pulled or pushed into the chunked version of DITA topics.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2207" scope="external" format="html">#2207</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2217">HTML: The process for handling <xmlatt>othertype</xmlatt> on a <xmlelement>note</xmlelement>
            element in HTML has been updated to use XSLT 2.0 best practices.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2217" scope="external" format="html">#2217</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2229">PDF: Earlier versions used an <xmlelement>fo:inline</xmlelement> element as a link target within
            topic titles, which can result in extra white space for certain common customizations. The process now
            places an ID on <xmlelement>fo:wrapper</xmlelement>, which removes the extra element and extra white space.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2229" scope="external" format="html">#2229</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2231">XSLT processing now uses a single parameter for message IDs rather than combining one parameter
            for the error number with another parameter for severity. This simplifies message processing and allows a
            greater range of message IDs in the future. In addition, the <msgnum>DOTX071W</msgnum> message will display
            a warning for customizations that use the older, deprecated parameters.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2231" scope="external" format="html">#2231</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2233">Common XSLT utility templates have been rewritten as functions. In addition, XSpec tests have
            been created so that the functions are now covered by automated DITA-OT testing.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2233" scope="external" format="html">#2233</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2241">The distribution integration and docs stages of the build process are now run in a forked JVM .
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2241" scope="external" format="html">#2241</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2249">PDF: A reference to the PDF2 catalog has been added to <filepath>catalog-dita.xml</filepath>. In
            previous releases, running <filepath>topic2fo_shell.xsl</filepath> directly would fail because the XSLT
            processor couldn't resolve paths that use the <codeph>cfg:</codeph> scheme.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2249" scope="external" format="html">#2249</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2268">The distribution package is now built via a fully automated Continuous Integration process.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2268" scope="external" format="html">#2268</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2276">HTML5: A new stable ID generation process has been implemented, instead of relying on the
              <codeph>generate-id()</codeph> function. By removing reliance on a dynamic value, this change enables
            automated testing of <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>headers</xmlatt> (generated for table accessibility).
            This also speeds up regression testing when comparing HTML output with previous versions.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2276" scope="external" format="html">#2276</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2277">A new ditaFileset function has been implemented to replace list files. This has no visible
            impact for builds, but improves the processing model overall and allows the older way of working with
            individual list files to be deprecated in a future release.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2277" scope="external" format="html">#2277</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2288">The build script for HTMLHelp, <filepath>build_dita2htmlhelp.xml</filepath>, now uses an
            environment variable to locate the HTMLHelp compiler. This allows the process to build a CHM file when the
            HTML Help Workshop is not installed on the <filepath>C:</filepath> drive.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2288" scope="external" format="html">#2288</xref>
          </li>
          <!-- Unmerged PR, remove 2.3 milestone in GitHub issues tracker (See 2.2.5 #1876, #2313, #2342) -->
          <li id="2305">HTML5: new extension points allow for customization of HTML5 output, HTML5 TOC processing, and
            HTML5 cover processing. These extension points were declared (but not implemented) in DITA-OT 2.2; this was
            addressed in 2.2.5 by removing the declarations. In DITA-OT 2.3, the declarations are restored and properly
            implemented.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2305" scope="external" format="html">#2305</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2341">The <filepath>startcmd</filepath> scripts are now generated by the DITA-OT integration process.
            This ensures that the <codeph>CLASSPATH</codeph> setting in the scripts is updated with any new or required
            Java libraries referenced by custom plug-ins.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2341" scope="external" format="html">#2341</xref>
            <note type="important">Users who still run DITA-OT using a custom start script based on a copy of
                <filepath>startcmd</filepath> may need to update their script after installing custom plug-ins. The
                <codeph>CLASSPATH</codeph> declarations are stored in alphabetical order, so they should only change
              when new plug-in libraries are added. To avoid these issues, run DITA-OT using the <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
              command instead of the deprecated <filepath>startcmd</filepath> scripts.</note></li>
          <li id="2350">PDF: Index group headings now appear in the PDF bookmarks. The new bookmarks will always appear
            in collapsed form under the Index heading. For example, a large index that covers every heading in English
            will now have bookmarks for "Special characters", "Numerics", and every letter from "A" to "Z". <!-- Supersedes unmerged PR 2149 -->
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2350" scope="external" format="html">#2350</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2382">PDF: The <codeph>antiquewhite</codeph> background color has been removed from table heads and
            key column contents in <xmlelement>simpletable</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>properties</xmlelement> tables
            to synchronize presentation with <xmlelement>choicetable</xmlelement> and provide a more uniform
            customization baseline between PDF output and HTML-based formats.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2382" scope="external" format="html">#2382</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2386" scope="external" format="html">#2386</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2383">Localization variables that are no longer used in PDF processing have been deprecated and will
            be removed in an upcoming release.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2383" scope="external" format="html">#2383</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="1931">PDF: The message "No topicTitleNumber mode template" has been removed. This removes extraneous
            messages that appeared when processing a bookmap with <xmlelement>notices</xmlelement> or
              <xmlelement>bookabstract</xmlelement>, or which refers to a subject scheme map.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1931" scope="external" format="html">#1931</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2065">HTML: trademark symbols previously only appeared for <xmlelement>tm</xmlelement> elements in
            English and a select few languages. This was a legacy of processing carried over from beta processing before
            DITA-OT 1.0; HTML trademark processing will now work the same regardless of document language.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2065" scope="external" format="html">#2065</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2141">Processing for <xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement> elements could be broken when the
              <xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement> was part of a larger section reused by conref. This is fixed by resolving
              <xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement> during the <codeph>topic-fragment</codeph> step of preprocessing.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2141" scope="external" format="html">#2141</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2161">The AXF document-info attribute <xmlatt>title</xmlatt> is deprecated; XSL-FO output for Antenna
            House output should use the <xmlatt>document-title</xmlatt> attribute instead.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2161" scope="external" format="html">#2161</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2162" scope="external" format="html">#2162</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2190">When using keys, referencing a file outside of the current directory causes processing to fail.
            Previously, the target file URI was resolved against the root of the temp directory. This has been updated
            to resolve the URI against the source file URI, which should always yield the correct result.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2190" scope="external" format="html">#2190</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2223" scope="external" format="html">#2223</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2197">In previous releases, specializations of the <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element did not work
            as intended. The corresponding XSLT template mode <codeph>related-links:link</codeph> has been modified to
            properly handle new elements that are based on the <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2197" scope="external" format="html">#2197</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2199" scope="external" format="html">#2199</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2227">Circular key definitions, when an element used <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> to refer to a key on the
            same element, resulted in a stack overflow in KeydefReader. This construct is now reported as an error with
            message <msgnum>DOTJ069E</msgnum>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2227" scope="external" format="html">#2227</xref>
          </li>
          <!-- Cherry-picked fixes released as workaround with 2.2.4 (see #2274). -->
          <li id="2243">Publishing failed when using <xmlelement>term</xmlelement> with keyref and chunking, as the
            chunking module created file references with backslashes. Processing has been updated to convert any
            backslashes to slashes before using the <codeph>resolve-uri</codeph> function in XSLT. This ensures that the
            attribute values are valid URI references according to
            <xref keyref="rfc3986"/>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2243" scope="external" format="html">#2243</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2294">PDF: In the simplified Chinese variables file (zh-CN), additional translations have been
            provided for some static strings that previously appeared in English.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2294" scope="external" format="html">#2294</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2353" scope="external" format="html">#2353</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2304">Resource-only topic references were considered duplicates by key processing, resulting in
            renamed output files in some cases. The resource-only instances are now ignored when determining whether to
            rename output files.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2304" scope="external" format="html">#2304</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2326">PDF code was cleaned up to remove a broken message that could not be triggered
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2326" format="html" scope="external">#2326</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2351" scope="external" format="html">#2351</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2339">In previous releases, specifying a <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute on the root
              <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element would cause builds to fail. Processing has been modified to handle
            this situation correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2339" scope="external" format="html">#2339</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 2.2..` -->
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Robert D. Anderson</li>
          <li>Eero Helenius</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Eliot Kimber</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu</li>
          <li>Shane Taylor</li>
          <li>Stefan Eike</li>
          <li>George Bina</li>
          <li>Kristen James Eberlein</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.2...2.3" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="docs">
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3 includes corrections and improvements to existing topics,
          along with several notable enhancements, including:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>The DITA Open Toolkit <cite>User Guide</cite> includes new topics on additional methods of publishing via
            the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command:
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="using-dita-properties-file"/>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="migrating-ant-to-dita"/>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>The DITA Open Toolkit <cite>Developer Reference</cite> includes several new sections dedicated to
            customization:
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="pdf-customization"/> provides an overview of approaches commonly used to customize the
                default PDF output and includes recommendations on best practices and additional resources.</li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="migration"/> highlights customization-related changes in recent releases to assist plug-in
                developers in updating overrides to work with the latest toolkit versions.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              <xref href="https://travis-ci.org/" format="html" scope="external">Travis CI</xref> continuous integration
              is used to automatically publish the latest development version of the documentation on the project
              website at
              <xref href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/" format="html" scope="external">dita-ot.org/dev</xref> whenever
              changes are pushed to the <codeph>develop</codeph> branch of the
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs" format="html" scope="external">dita-ot/docs</xref> repository
              on GitHub.</p></li>
          <li>
            <p>In the latest
              <xref href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/" format="html" scope="external">development version</xref> of the
              documentation, page footers now include <uicontrol>Edit this page</uicontrol> links that open the DITA
              source file for the topic in
              <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/webauthor/" format="html" scope="external">oXygen XML Web
                Author</xref>.</p>
            <p>The web-based authoring workflow prompts users to log in to GitHub and fork the
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs" format="html" scope="external">dita-ot/docs</xref> repository
              if necessary. Changes saved in the authoring environment are committed to a new branch, and a pull request
              is created to submit changes for review by the DITA-OT documentation team.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on documentation issues resolved in DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.3, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/issues?q=milestone%3A2.3+is%3Aclosed" format="html"
            scope="external">2.3 milestone</xref> in the documentation repository.</p>
        <p>For the complete list of documentation changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/2.2...2.3" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
</reference>
