<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID" rev="2.2">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 2.2.5 Release Notes</title>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 2.2.5 is a maintenance release that fixes issues
      reported in DITA-OT 2.2, which includes new features and enhancements and additional
      support for the OASIS DITA 1.3 specification.</shortdesc>
    <p>Issue numbers correspond to the tracking number in the <ph>
        <xref keyref="dita-ot-issues">GitHub issues tracker</xref></ph>.</p>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="v225">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.2.5</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2.5 includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="1190">In earlier toolkit versions, the Word RTF transformation produced invalid RTF output when source
            files contained tables with absolute column widths. Processing has been modified to treat all widths as
            proportional, including units given in inches, centimeters, millimeters, or points. Absolute units are not
            respected, but the toolkit now generates valid RTF output rather than crashing.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1190" scope="external" format="html">#1190</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2333" scope="external" format="html">#2333</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1549">References to empty ditamap files threw the <msgnum>DOTX031E</msgnum> error message during the
            mapref processing stage. The toolkit no longer checks for subelements in the map and will now continue
            processing as long as a root node is available.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1549" scope="external" format="html">#1549</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2336" scope="external" format="html">#2336</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1709">Several error messages generated during index processing for PDF output have been clarified to
            better explain the cause of the error and provide more helpful information on how to resolve the issue.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1709" scope="external" format="html">#1709</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2327" scope="external" format="html">#2327</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1764">Links to <xmlelement>dlentry</xmlelement> elements were broken in PDFs generated via Apache FOP,
            as FOP does not support the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on table rows. To work around this issue, DITA-OT
            now moves the ID from the <xmlelement>dlentry</xmlelement> to an <xmlelement>fo:inline</xmlelement> element
            in the first term when rendering PDF output via FOP.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1764" scope="external" format="html">#1764</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2198" scope="external" format="html">#2198</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1876">The DITA-OT 2.0 HTML5 transformation declared several XSL extension points that were not fully
            implemented:
            <ul>
              <li><codeph>dita.xsl.html5</codeph></li>
              <li><codeph>dita.xsl.html5.toc</codeph></li>
              <li><codeph>dita.xsl.html5.cover</codeph></li>
            </ul> Three new templates now provide the necessary <xmlelement>dita:extension</xmlelement> elements to add
            custom XSLT processing to the HTML5 transformation.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1876" scope="external" format="html">#1876</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2313" scope="external" format="html">#2313</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2342" scope="external" format="html">#2342</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2266">The OASIS catalogs for DITA 1.3 pointed to a series of non-existent resources. The catalog files
            have been updated to remove spurious file references and errata have been submitted to OASIS for inclusion
            in the original source catalogs.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2266" scope="external" format="html">#2266</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2320" scope="external" format="html">#2320</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2307">Performance of previous toolkit versions suffered substantially if a single warehouse topic was
            used to store a large number of blocks for reference instead of multiple smaller warehouse topics with the
            same total number of blocks. An expensive XPath expression in the content reference processing phase was
            replaced with an optimized expression that dramatically reduces publication time in cases with thousands of
            following siblings.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2307" scope="external" format="html">#2307</xref>, 
        <!--<xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2308" scope="external" format="html">#2308</xref>, -->
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2309" scope="external" format="html">#2309</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2311">In JavaHelp output, the copy-css task was called too early, before the
              <parmname>user.csspath</parmname> parameter was evaluated, so CSS files were copied to a folder named
              <codeph>${user.csspath}</codeph> rather than to the intended location. JavaHelp processing has been
            corrected to avoid the duplicate dependency on the copy-css task and ensure that CSS files are handled
            correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2311" scope="external" format="html">#2311</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2312">Two unimplemented parameter extension points were removed from the HTML5 plug-in:
            <ul>
              <li><codeph>dita.conductor.html5.param</codeph></li>
              <li><codeph>dita.conductor.html5.toc.param</codeph></li>
            </ul> Implementers who want to add parameters to the HTML5 transformation can instead require the base HTML
            plug-in as well as the HTML5 plug-in and extend the base HTML plug-in's parameter extension points
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2312" scope="external" format="html">#2312</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2314" scope="external" format="html">#2314</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2315">Content reference range processing has been modified to use before <codeph>&lt;&lt;</codeph> and
            after <codeph>&gt;&gt;</codeph> expressions rather than following-sibling and check that the conref end
            target actually exists.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2315" scope="external" format="html">#2315</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2321">When a <xmlelement>topicsetref</xmlelement> element is used to refer to a
              <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement>, previous toolkit versions threw <msgnum>DOTX019W</msgnum> errors,
            suggesting that every reference in the original <xmlelement>topicset</xmlelement> also specified
              <xmlatt>type</xmlatt><codeph>="topicset"</codeph>. Map reference processing has been modified to drop the
              <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute as part of the resolution. This prevents such unintended side effects by
            ensuring that the type no longer cascades further down the resolved branch.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2321" scope="external" format="html">#2321</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2338" scope="external" format="html">#2338</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2329">Support for flagging in HTML output has been imported (rather than included) and moved before
            the extension point to allow custom plug-ins to override flagging behavior.
        <!--<xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2325" scope="external" format="html">#2325</xref>, -->
            <!--<xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2328" scope="external" format="html">#2328</xref>, -->
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2329" scope="external" format="html">#2329</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.2.4...2.2.5" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v224">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.2.4</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2.4 included the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2283">The <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> is now used as link text when links are specified using a
              <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element (or specialized variant) as link target. This approach allows the
            toolkit to be more lenient when authors link to a <xmlelement>glossterm</xmlelement> rather than to the
            parent <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> element, or to figure or table titles instead of the
              <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element structure
            <xref href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/part1-base/langRef/base/xref.html#xref"
              format="html" scope="external">recommended</xref> by the
            <xref keyref="dita-ot-spec"/>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2283" scope="external" format="html">#2283</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2278">The default value for the <parmname>args.copycss</parmname> parameter has been explicitly set to
              <option>no</option>. Previous toolkit versions never initialized a default value, and only copied the
            custom .css file if the parameter was set to <option>yes</option>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2278" scope="external" format="html">#2278</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2274">Hyperlink reference processing has been modified to guard against error conditions caused by
            Windows-style path separators in <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute values. Any backslashes are converted to
            forward slash (“/”) characters to ensure that the attribute values are valid URI references according to
            <xref keyref="rfc3986"/>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2274" scope="external" format="html">#2274</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2270">A typo was fixed in the common string logic for the PDF plug-in to retrieve the proper localized
            string for the task “Results” label that appears when <parmname>args.gen.task.lbl</parmname> is set to
              <option>YES</option>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2270" scope="external" format="html">#2270</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2216" scope="external" format="html">#2216</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2203" scope="external" format="html">#2203</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2264">DITA-OT 2.2 introduced a regression in which topics referenced via keys in submaps were not
            included in the table of contents. The keyref resolution mechanism has been corrected to ensure that key
            references in submaps are correctly resolved.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2264" scope="external" format="html">#2264</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1293">A new <msgnum>DOTJ068E</msgnum> error message was added to report cases when a conref "mark"
            action is used to mark a target element without a corresponding content reference target (for example, when
            the order of the "mark" element and the pushed element is reversed).
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1293" scope="external" format="html">#1293</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.2.3...2.2.4" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v223">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.2.3</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2.3 included the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2246">Specifying the source of a long quote with a <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute on a
              <xmlelement>longquoteref</xmlelement> element caused a Null Pointer Exception. The keyref parser has been
            modified to ensure that key references on long quote references are correctly resolved.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2246" scope="external" format="html">#2246</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2240">The keyscope cascading mechanisms for branch filtering have been modified to comply with the
            <xref keyref="dita-ot-spec"/>. In cases where no <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute is specified on a
            filtered branch, the prefix and/or suffix values specified in <xmlelement>dvrKeyscopePrefix</xmlelement> /
              <xmlelement>dvrKeyscopeSuffix</xmlelement> are now used as the effective key scope names. Key scope
            prefixes and suffixes are no longer propagated to descendant key scopes, but only applied to the branch
            parent.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2240" scope="external" format="html">#2240</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2236">PDF: In DITA-OT 2.2.2, if a <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element contained both
              <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> and a description in the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element, the
            hyperlink was rendered with the contents of the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element appended to the
            contents of the <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element. Link processing has been modified to ensure that
              <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements with descriptions are rendered correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2236" scope="external" format="html">#2236</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2214">PDF: Index term processing has been revised to ensure that indexes in PDF output generated with
            Apache FOP correctly include page ranges when <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes are
            defined on <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements and the terms of the index range appear on different
            pages. A single page reference is generated in cases where both occurrences of the index term appear on the
            same page.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2214" scope="external" format="html">#2214</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2211">ODT: The OpenDocument Text transformation has been revised to support SVG images for which image
            dimensions are not specified via <xmlatt>height</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>width</xmlatt> attributes.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2211" scope="external" format="html">#2211</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.2.2...2.2.3" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v222">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.2.2</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2.2 included the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2023">PDF: In earlier DITA-OT 2.x releases, short description content was not rendered when publishing
            from a bookmap with the <parmname>args.chapter.layout</parmname> parameter set to <option>BASIC</option>.
            Short descriptions are now rendered properly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2023" scope="external" format="html">#2023</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2172"><i>Windows:</i> The name of the JAR file for Apache Ant has been corrected to fix the
              <codeph>ANT_HOME is set incorrectly or ant could not be located</codeph> error that appeared when running
            the bundled Ant version on Windows in DITA-OT 2.2.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2172" scope="external" format="html">#2172</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2180">The order in which plug-ins are integrated has been revised to guarantee that the base DITA-OT
            plug-ins always come first. This ensures that base target code cannot be overridden.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2180" scope="external" format="html">#2180</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="2181">Two unimplemented extension point declarations were removed from the html5 plug-in pending
            implementation in a future DITA-OT version (
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2181" scope="external" format="html">#2181</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2184" scope="external" format="html">#2184</xref>):
            <ul>
              <li><codeph>dita.conductor.html5.param</codeph></li>
              <li><codeph>dita.conductor.html5.toc.param</codeph></li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          -->
          <li id="2192">Content references with relative paths were not properly resolved to the target document in some
            cases. The conref base URI resolution mechanism was fixed to ensure that relative references are now
            resolved correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2192" scope="external" format="html">#2192</xref>
          </li>
          <li>The documentation has been updated with links to the final
            <xref keyref="dita-ot-spec"/>.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.2.1...2.2.2" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v221">
    <title>Maintenance Release 2.2.1</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2.1 included the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2170">PDF: Several templates in the <filepath>pr-domain.xsl</filepath> file used
              <codeph>value-of</codeph> rather than <codeph>apply-templates</codeph> to output the element contents.
            This prevented flagging from working as intended in PDF output. This has been corrected to ensure that
            elements in the programming domain are properly flagged.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2170" scope="external" format="html">#2170</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2163">The name of the JAR file for the Apache Commons library that provides reusable Java components
            has been corrected in the integrator Ant script to fix the <codeph>NoClassDefFoundError</codeph> error that
            appeared when the integrator ran in DITA-OT 2.2.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2163" scope="external" format="html">#2163</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2154">PDF title metadata is now generated correctly for DITA maps that set the
              <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute. In certain cases, previous versions of DITA-OT displayed the
              <codeph>XMP structure: 1</codeph> label in the Document Properties dialog instead of the map title.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2154" scope="external" format="html">#2154</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.2...2.2.1" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="infotexture">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have
          changed since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2 requires the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) version
            <keyword keyref="tool.java.version"/> or later.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="highlights">
    <title>Release Highlights</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <title>DITA 1.3 support</title>
        <p><ph conref="../reference/DITA_v1-3-support.dita#dita-13-spec-support/shortdesc-ph"/></p>
        <p conref="../reference/DITA_v1-3-support.dita#dita-13-spec-support/p"/>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2 extends DITA 1.3 support with the following
          enhancements: <note id="2094" conref="../reference/DITA_v1-3-support.dita#dita-13-spec-support/2094"/>
          <ul>
            <li id="1969">Initial implementation of DITA 1.3 branch filtering
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1969" scope="external" format="html">#1969</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1637" scope="external" format="html">#1637</xref>
            </li>
            <li id="1979" conref="../reference/DITA_v1-3-support.dita#dita-13-spec-support/1979"/>
            <li id="1783" conref="../reference/DITA_v1-3-support.dita#dita-13-spec-support/1783"/>
            <li id="1968" conref="../reference/DITA_v1-3-support.dita#dita-13-spec-support/1968"/>
          </ul>
        </p>
        <!--<p>For details on these and all other enhancements, see the sections below.</p>-->
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>New HTML5 output</title>
        <ul>
          <li id="2099">The <option>HTML5</option> transformation has been moved to a separate plug-in to facilitate
            customization of modern HTML5-based output. The default CSS has been refactored in
            <xref keyref="sass-lang"/> as a foundation for further extensions with CSS frameworks, custom plug-ins and
            future toolkit versions. (The original XHTML plug-in remains available to support existing legacy HTML-based
            output formats such as TocJS, HTML Help and JavaHelp.)
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2099" scope="external" format="html">#2099</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2103">The <option>HTML5</option> transformation has been extended with a new
              <parmname>nav-toc</parmname> parameter that can be used to generate a table of contents in the HTML5
              <xmlelement>nav</xmlelement> element of each page. The navigation can then be rendered in a sidebar or
            menu via CSS. This parameter is disabled by default (<option>none</option>), but can be enabled by setting
            the value to <option>partial</option> (which includes the current topic in the ToC along with its parents,
            siblings and children), or <option>full</option> (which generates a ToC for the entire map).
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2103" scope="external" format="html">#2103</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>PDF supports new languages</title>
        <p>The <option>PDF</option> transformation has been extended to support additional languages with localized
          strings files and index collation.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2085" scope="external" format="html">#2085</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2089" scope="external" format="html">#2089</xref>
          <ul>
            <li>Arabic</li>
            <li>Catalan</li>
            <li>Croatian</li>
            <li>Czech</li>
            <li>Danish</li>
            <li>Hungarian</li>
            <li>Icelandic</li>
            <li>Latvian</li>
            <li>Norwegian</li>
            <li>Polish</li>
            <li>Portuguese</li>
            <li>Portuguese (Brazil)</li>
            <li>Slovak</li>
            <li>Turkish</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
    <related-links>
      <link keyref="dita-ot-spec"/>
      <link href="../reference/DITA_v1-3-support.dita"/>
    </related-links>
  </reference>

  <reference id="issues">
    <title>Resolved issues</title>
    <shortdesc>In addition to the highlights mentioned above, DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2
      includes the following changes.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
      <section id="features">
        <title>Features</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2 includes the following new features:</p>
        <ul>
          <!--<li id="2094">Add DITA 1.3 schemas
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2094" scope="external" format="html">#2094</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="2072">The <parmname>args.artlbl</parmname> parameter previously provided in HTML-based transformations
            to show the source file name along with referenced images has been added to the PDF transformation. For
            inline images, the label appears immediately after the image; for standalone images, it appears on a line
            following the image.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2072" scope="external" format="html">#2072</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2062" scope="external" format="html">#2062</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2071">In PDF output, any index entries that begin with special characters are now moved to a dedicated
            section of the index. (Previous toolkit versions issued a warning and dropped any unexpected index terms.)
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2073" scope="external" format="html">#2073</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2071" scope="external" format="html">#2071</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2018">The plug-in configuration file <filepath>resources/plugins.xml</filepath> generated by the
            integration process now adds the <xmlatt>xml:base</xmlatt> attribute to each plug-in configuration element
            so that file paths in the plug-in configuration can be resolved relative to the plug-in folder. This makes
            it easier to share a DITA-OT distribution with others via a version control system or bundle it with an
            application without re-running the integration process in each installation location.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2018" scope="external" format="html">#2018</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="2004">Support multiple scope names in a single keyscope attribute
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2004" scope="external" format="html">#2004</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="1995">The <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph> and <codeph>mappull</codeph> steps have been merged. The
              <codeph>mappull</codeph> step has been moved into <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph> and an empty target
            for mappull is retained for backwards compatibility.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1995" scope="external" format="html">#1995</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1984">The generation of page masters and page sequence masters in the PDF plug-in has been modularized
            to make it easier to extend or override the default set of masters.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1984" scope="external" format="html">#1984</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="1979">Initial support for DITA 1.3 key scopes
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1979" scope="external" format="html">#1979</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1648" scope="external" format="html">#1648</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="1976">The PDF plug-in has been extended with two new extension points for
              <codeph>flagging-preprocess</codeph> and <codeph>i18n-postprocess</codeph> to alllow plug-ins to customize
            these steps of the flagging process.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1976" scope="external" format="html">#1976</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="1969">Initial implementation of DITA 1.3 branch filtering
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1969" scope="external" format="html">#1969</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1637" scope="external" format="html">#1637</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="1962">The key definition reading process has been moved from the <codeph>gen-list</codeph>
            preprocessing module to the <codeph>keyref</codeph> module to further modularize the code and support
            additional DITA 1.3 use cases for keys, such as a map that includes a map that then includes another map
            with a key definition.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1962" scope="external" format="html">#1962</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1961">The mapref processing stage has been moved to the beginning of the preprocessing pipeline to
            simplify keyref processing and support DITA 1.3 branch filtering by allowing all processing to be performed
            on a single map.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1961" scope="external" format="html">#1961</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1957">The <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <option>-install</option> option can now be used to integrate multiple plug-ins at once. If no
              <varname>file</varname> or <varname>url</varname> argument is provided, the integration process reloads
            plug-ins from the <filepath>plugins</filepath> directory, so you can unzip multiple plug-ins to the
              <filepath>plugins</filepath> directory and run <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <option>-install</option> to integrate them all at once.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1957" scope="external" format="html">#1957</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1955">The PDF transformation has been extended with XML catalog support for RenderX XEP. The main
            DITA-OT catalog file is now used to ensure that doctypes such as SVG graphics pass validation when
            generating PDF output using XEP.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1955" scope="external" format="html">#1955</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1953">The Java code has been refactored to use URI-based processing (rather than File objects or
            Strings) wherever possible to permit automatic validation of values and support the use of external URIs.
            This allows non-file resources to be processed with commands such as <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <option>-i http://example.com/test.ditamap -f html5</option>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1544" format="html" scope="external">#1544</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1953" scope="external" format="html">#1953</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1905">Plug-in folders are now sorted before the integration process runs to ensure predictable results
            and consistent order each time plug-ins are reloaded.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1905" scope="external" format="html">#1905</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1866">The metadata format in the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file for the
              <filepath>org.dita.xhtml</filepath> plug-in has been refactored with abstract transtypes that group common
            parameters used in multiple transformation types. This approach allows common parameters to be defined in
            one place and re-used for multiple output formats as necessary.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1866" scope="external" format="html">#1866</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1836">The <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command options have been extended to add <option>-t</option> as a
            synonym for the <option>-temp</option> option used to specify the location of the temporary directory.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1836" scope="external" format="html">#1836</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2039" scope="external" format="html">#2039</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1835">The validation of the table group <xmlatt>cols</xmlatt> attribute has been relaxed to support
            use cases in which tables containing auto-generated <xmlatt>cols</xmlatt> values are reused via content
            references.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1835" scope="external" format="html">#1835</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1757">The format of the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file has been extended to allow plug-ins to
            specify the list of public parameters added for each transformation type and announce extensions to a list
            of arguments defined in another transtype.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1757" scope="external" format="html">#1757</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2 includes the following enhancements and changes to
          existing features:</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2118">PDF: Table body rows now use the <option>keep-together.within-page</option> attribute to prevent
            page breaks within rows.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2118" scope="external" format="html">#2118</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2117">PDF: List item numbers are now aligned with the baseline to prevent issues when list items
            include icons or other inline elements that affect line spacing.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2117" scope="external" format="html">#2117</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2116">PDF: Step section bodies within task topics now honor the <codeph>$side-col-width</codeph> value
            from <filepath>basic-settings.xsl</filepath>, which defines a uniform indent relative to the page margin and
            aligns with other body text. (Earlier toolkit versions used a hard-coded 9-mm <option>start-indent</option>
            setting.)
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2116" scope="external" format="html">#2116</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2098">PDF: The index generation process has been rewritten using XSL keys for better performance. The
            optimizations yield significantly faster PDF builds when using Apache FOP.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2098" scope="external" format="html">#2098</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2086" scope="external" format="html">#2086</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2097">HTML5 and XHTML table border processing has been optimized to match the expected output based on
            the table width, column separation, row separation and frame settings in the source files, permit easier
            integration of CSS frameworks, and output valid documents.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2097" scope="external" format="html">#2097</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="2096">Extra warnings reported when project using key scopes and branch filtering is published
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2096" scope="external" format="html">#2096</xref>
          </li>-->
          <!--<li id="2089">Add additional languages to PDF2
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2089" scope="external" format="html">#2089</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="2088">The task headings (About this task, Procedure, etc.) and flags for Optional and Required steps
            in the <option>PDF</option> transformation have been synchronized with those available in the common string
            files, <option>XHTML</option> and <option>ODT</option> transformations. Source files that make use of these
            options should now yield more more consistent results when generating output in multiple formats.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2088" scope="external" format="html">#2088</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="2085">Add support for many new languages to PDF2
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2085" scope="external" format="html">#2085</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="2080">PDF: The index groups for Numerics and Special Characters have been aligned for greater
            consistency across languages.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2080" scope="external" format="html">#2080</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2074" scope="external" format="html">#2074</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2076">PDF: The “pointing finger” image <filepath>hand.gif</filepath> is no longer used to highlight
              <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> elements, as it may be considered offensive in some cultures. The image file
            is still available for backwards compatibility with any customization that references it, and the "Note
            Image Path" variables are still present to permit the use of custom image files, but they are now empty by
            default. Text-only note labels appear instead, and the default indentation is reduced by the width of the
            empty note image column.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2076" scope="external" format="html">#2076</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1577" scope="external" format="html">#1577</xref>
            <note>The <filepath>warning.gif</filepath> file is still used for Attention, Caution, Danger and Warning
              admonitions.</note>
          </li>
          <!-- Already included in 2.1.2 RN -->
          <!--<li>Add support for n-tilde in Spanish index 
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2068" scope="external" format="html">#2068</xref>, 
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2069" scope="external" format="html">#2069</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="2066">The <parmname>outer.control</parmname> parameter description was corrected to clarify how the
            DITA-OT handles content files that are not located in or below the directory containing the master DITA map.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1707" scope="external" format="html">#1707</xref>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2066" scope="external" format="html">#2066</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2058">Formatter-specific code for XSL-FO rendering engines has been removed from the PDF plug-in and
            split into separate plug-ins for Apache FOP, Antenna House Formatter and RenderX XEP.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2058" scope="external" format="html">#2058</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="2055">Extend <codeph>transtype</codeph> parameter description
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2055" scope="external" format="html">#2055</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2054">Sync order of arguments in command descriptions
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2054" scope="external" format="html">#2054</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="2053">The classpath order is now retained when generating the <filepath>env.sh</filepath> and
              <filepath>env.bat</filepath> environment files to ensure predictable results when a plug-in that uses Java
            libraries presupposes a certain classpath order.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2053" scope="external" format="html">#2053</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2049">The PDF2 flagging step that converted <filepath>stage1.xml</filepath> to
              <filepath>stage1a.xml</filepath> in the PDF process has been refactored to take advantage of the flagging
            information added during the common preprocessing stage.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2049" scope="external" format="html">#2049</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2047" scope="external" format="html">#2047</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2046">The <filepath>dita.bat</filepath> Windows batch file for the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command now
            sets the <varname>DITA_HOME</varname> variable to point to the correct location of the DITA-OT.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2046" scope="external" format="html">#2046</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2041">PDF: A new <parmname>axf.opt</parmname> parameter has been added to specify the user
            configuration file for Antenna House Formatter.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2041" scope="external" format="html">#2041</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1986">Processing mode coverage has been improved to treat error messages as fatal errors, so the
            DITA-OT will now stop processing if any source files are missing when the
              <parmname>processing-mode</parmname> parameter is set to <option>strict</option>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1986" scope="external" format="html">#1986</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1970">Table columns for which no width is defined in a <xmlelement>colspec</xmlelement> element are no
            longer set to <codeph>1*</codeph> per the CALS Table Model. Instead, empty <xmlatt>colwidth</xmlatt>
            attributes are generated to allow formatter-specific auto-layout. The FO processor can then set the width of
            the columns based on the column content.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1970" scope="external" format="html">#1970</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="1544">Use URI and File instead of String
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1544" scope="external" format="html">#1544</xref>
          </li>-->
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2128">Inconsistency in naming of flow name, region definition
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2128" scope="external" format="html">#2128</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="2125">Missing `.tar.gz` distribution package
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2125" scope="external" format="html">#2125</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="2119">Third relcolspec title on a reltable no longer taken into account for publishing
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2119" scope="external" format="html">#2119</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2109">Topic in temp folder is not wellformed
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2109" scope="external" format="html">#2109</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2108">gradle build fails with ‘Could not load FFI Provider ..’ on Windows
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2108" scope="external" format="html">#2108</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2105">Behavior of the force-unique flag
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2105" scope="external" format="html">#2105</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2101">Site builds fail after <codeph>html5</codeph> changes
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2101" scope="external" format="html">#2101</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2095">Generated HTML table is invalid according to HTML5 specs
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2095" scope="external" format="html">#2095</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2093">Fix table and figure list to include number, title
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2093" scope="external" format="html">#2093</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2091">Remove obsolete info from codepage list
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2091" scope="external" format="html">#2091</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2090">Add axf.jar into log-processor taskdef classpath
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2090" scope="external" format="html">#2090</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2081">Add PFD2 index groups for a-breve, a-circ in Romanian
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2081" scope="external" format="html">#2081</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2078">Ambiguous message for example with two titles
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2078" scope="external" format="html">#2078</xref>
          </li>
          <!-- #2068 already included in 2.1.2 RN -->
          <li id="2061">Table not localized in French translation org.dita.pdf2 - fr.xml
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2061" scope="external" format="html">#2061</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2060">French translation of Table of contents is incorrect
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2060" scope="external" format="html">#2060</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2059">Fix ODT title generation
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2059" scope="external" format="html">#2059</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2034" scope="external" format="html">#2034</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2051">Catch null FileInfo object being referenced in move-meta.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2051" scope="external" format="html">#2051</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2050">Flagging preprocess grabs too much with check for defaults
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2050" scope="external" format="html">#2050</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2048" scope="external" format="html">#2048</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="2027">when transfer .ditamap file to odt format output,the title of the odt file is not correct <xref
              href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2034" scope="external" format="html">#2034</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="2027">Error message not properly formatted
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2027" scope="external" format="html">#2027</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2012">Can no longer publish to XHTML image with data protocol
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2012" scope="external" format="html">#2012</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2009">Ensuring @chunk inside topicgroups functions as expected.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2009" scope="external" format="html">#2009</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1991" scope="external" format="html">#1991</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2006">Copy-to usage with URI support does not properly work
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2006" scope="external" format="html">#2006</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2003">Cannot publish remote HTTP DITA Map to XHTML
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2003" scope="external" format="html">#2003</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1992">Branch filtering does not seem to work with entire DITA Maps
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1992" scope="external" format="html">#1992</xref>
          </li>
          <!-- <li id="1991">Problem with chunking (DITA OT 2.x). <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1991"
            scope="external" format="html">#1991</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="1989">Add proper mappings for topicrefs with copy-to attributes in JavaHelp
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1989" scope="external" format="html">#1989</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1974">Use the fragment part of KeyDef @href attribute when building @conref
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1974" scope="external" format="html">#1974</xref>
          </li>
          <!--<li id="1968">Move same topic fragment processing before conref
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1968" scope="external" format="html">#1968</xref>
          </li>-->
          <li id="1967">Remove unwanted $PATH2PROJ remnant from $entry-file definition (glossary entry file resolution
            fails from term and abbreviated-form DOTX058W)
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1967" scope="external" format="html">#1967</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1966" scope="external" format="html">#1966</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1823">DITA-OT 2.0 - Build Error (Windows) - Illegal character - keyref target
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1823" scope="external" format="html">#1823</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1816">abbreviated-form and term keyref links are not resolved when chunk="to-content"
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1816" scope="external" format="html">#1816</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="1605">Two levels of map ref causes good key ref to fail
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1605" scope="external" format="html">#1605</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 2.2 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 2.1..` -->
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Robert D. Anderson</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Eero Helenius</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu</li>
          <li>Tom Glastonbury</li>
          <li>Kendall Shaw</li>
          <li>Eliot Kimber</li>
          <li>Chris Nitchie</li>
          <li>Stefan Eike</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.1...2.2" scope="external" format="html">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  <!--
  <reference id="limitations">
    <title>Limitations</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="infotexture">Add info on any significant open issues, caveats or known limitations in
          DITA markup support.</draft-comment>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  -->
  <!--
  <reference id="migration">
    <title>Migration From Previous Releases</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="jelovirt">TODO</draft-comment>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  -->
</reference>
