<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID" rev="3.1">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 3.1.3 Release Notes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Release Notes</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 3.1.3 is a maintenance release that fixes issues
      reported in DITA-OT 3.1, which includes <ph conref="#v3.1/summary"/>.</shortdesc>
    <p conkeyref="conref-task/semver-info"/>
    <note type="tip"><ph conref="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/download-ot"/></note>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have changed
          since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 requires the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) version
            <keyword keyref="tool.java.version"/> or later.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v3.1.3">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.1.3 <ph outputclass="small">released October 3, 2018</ph></title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 3.1.3 is a maintenance release that includes the
          following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="3060">In earlier releases, if a footnote was defined in a table cell that specified
              <codeph>align="center"</codeph>, the footnote content at the bottom of a PDF page would also be
            center-aligned. This has been fixed so that PDF footnotes always align to the start of the page.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3060" format="html" scope="external">#3060</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3065" format="html" scope="external">#3065</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3064">In DITA-OT 3.0 and 3.1, unresolved <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> errors may appear when nested submaps
            that are not in the same directory as the referencing map have <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> elements with
            valid content references. This issue has been fixed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3064" format="html" scope="external">#3064</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3066">In PDF output, index entries inside of <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> and
              <xmlelement>required-cleanup</xmlelement> would appear in the generated index as broken links when draft
            content was excluded. This has been fixed, and the entries will not appear in the index unless draft content
            is included.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3066" format="html" scope="external">#3066</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3071">In earlier releases, missing images could result in a missing file warning that suggested that a
              <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> was needed to use the image in a table of contents. This message has
            been fixed to simply describe the missing file.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3071" format="html" scope="external">#3071</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3073">In earlier releases, many PDF index entries were defined in the XSL-FO file using
              <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes that worked but were technically invalid. This could result in a large
            number of warnings from tools that rendered the XSL-FO file. The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes have been
            fixed to ensure validity.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3073" format="html" scope="external">#3073</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3077">When maps use content outside of the map directory, and some <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            elements in the build specify <codeph>chunk="by-topic"</codeph>, earlier releases could fail with Java
            errors when evaluating the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute. This has been fixed so that chunking is
            resolved properly when content is referenced outside of the map directory.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3077" format="html" scope="external">#3077</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3081">In PDF processing for DITA-OT 3.0 and 3.1, a variable that stores navigation titles was typed in
            a way that caused XSLT errors for some values. The variable type has been corrected.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3081" format="html" scope="external">#3081</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3082">In earlier releases, PDF builds with broken links improperly reported a fatal error. DITA-OT 3.0
            was changed to halt the build on fatal errors, which caused these PDF builds to fail. The error message
            level has been corrected from <codeph>FATAL</codeph> to <codeph>ERROR</codeph>, allowing builds to finish.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3082" format="html" scope="external">#3082</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3083">In DITA-OT 3.0 and 3.1, the PDF build using <codeph>preprocess2</codeph> had build errors
            when the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute was used. This error has been resolved, and the
            <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute is evaluated correctly in <codeph>preprocess2</codeph>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3083" format="html" scope="external">#3083</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3085" format="html" scope="external">#3085</xref>
        </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.1.2...3.1.3" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v3.1.2">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.1.2 <ph outputclass="small">released August 13, 2018</ph></title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 3.1.2 is a maintenance release that includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2222">When a content reference was combined with <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> to reference a sequence of
            topics, all but the first topic were copied without a required <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute. This resulted
            in NullPointerExceptions from later processing steps that expected <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> on all topics. The
            content reference behavior has been fixed to avoid the error.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2222" format="html" scope="external">#2222</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3033" format="html" scope="external">#3033</xref></li>
          <li id="2940">In earlier versions, when a topic with index terms had an empty title (or a title with only
            metadata), HTML Help and Eclipse Help index processing would end in a NullPointerException. This error has
            been fixed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2940" format="html" scope="external">#2940</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3043" format="html" scope="external">#3043</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2948">In earlier versions, when the input file was a topic that contained a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
            reference to itself, that topic would not generate output for XHTML or HTML5. The issue has been fixed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2948" format="html" scope="external">#2948</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3045" format="html" scope="external">#3045</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3008">When processing without schema validation, it is possible to add <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
            attributes on elements where they are not legal. In earlier releases, this resulted in a
            NullPointerException from the keyref resolution module. These invalid attributes are now ignored.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3008" format="html" scope="external">#3008</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3034" format="html" scope="external">#3034</xref></li>
          <li id="3023">The Lightweight DITA plug-in has been updated to version 2.0.6, which provides improved support
            for inline HTML elements.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3023" format="html" scope="external">#3023</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3024">In DITA-OT 3.1, configuration data is read from two files, but some processes would incorrectly
            load only one file and miss properties in the other. This is fixed by removing
              <filepath>lib/configuration.properties</filepath> and storing all configuration properties in
              <filepath>config/configuration.properties</filepath>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3024" format="html" scope="external">#3024</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3027">In earlier releases, when the "same file" reference syntax <codeph>href="#./elementid</codeph>
            was pulled into another file as part of a content reference, the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute was
            corrupted, resulting in broken links. These references have been fixed and now refer to the element with
              <codeph>id="elementid"</codeph> in the new resolved context.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3027" format="html" scope="external">#3027</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3029">In DITA-OT 3.0 and 3.1, Saxon would generate XSLT errors when it encountered
              <xmlelement>cite</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>term</xmlelement> inside of a
              <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element in the related links section of a topic. The XSLT syntax has
            been fixed to avoid this error.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3029" format="html" scope="external">#3029</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3040">In earlier versions, the Ant build code for PDF2 set up a <codeph>CLASSPATH</codeph> variable
            that referenced JAR files that no longer exist. These references have been removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2832" format="html" scope="external">#2832</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3040" format="html" scope="external">#3040</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.1.1...3.1.2" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v3.1.1">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.1.1 <ph outputclass="small">released July 16, 2018</ph></title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 3.1.1 is a maintenance release that includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="2662">When generating PDF output with Antenna House Formatter, earlier versions would sometimes fail
            when interpreting the Antenna House log. Processing has been updated to improve test coverage and handle
            these cases more gracefully.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2662" format="html" scope="external">#2662</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3012" format="html" scope="external">#3012</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2855">Earlier versions treated image files referenced in <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> elements and
            certain other non-DITA resources as DITA topics. The map reader processing phase has been corrected to
            reliably collect non-DITA resources and record them as such in the <filepath>.job.xml</filepath> file.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2855" format="html" scope="external">#2855</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3010" format="html" scope="external">#3010</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2870">DITA-OT 3.0 failed to produce Eclipse help output. A missing library import has been restored to
            ensure that Eclipse help is generated correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2870" format="html" scope="external">#2870</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2983">When generating output for HTML-based formats, earlier versions failed to handle
              <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute references to topics outside the map directory hierarchy, resulting
            in missing content and invalid paths to CSS resources. Processing has been corrected to ensure the paths to
            such files are calculated correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2983" format="html" scope="external">#2983</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3014" format="html" scope="external">#3014</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3005">A missing reference to the <parmname>$file-being-processed</parmname> parameter has been
            restored to ensure that the current file is correctly tracked while resolving map references in
            pre-processing.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3005" format="html" scope="external">#3005</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3007">In earlier versions, key references to duplicate topics created via <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt>
            attributes caused builds to fail. The original source information is now correctly recorded for copy-to
            targets, allowing builds to continue.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3007" format="html" scope="external">#3007</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3015" format="html" scope="external">#3015</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3017">In earlier versions, <xmlelement>screen</xmlelement> elements resulted in a build failure when
            published to troff. Updating the plugin to version 3.1.1 resolves the issue.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3017" format="html" scope="external">#3017</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The documentation includes minor
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/3.1...3.1.1" format="html" scope="external">
                changes</xref> with
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/milestone/34?closed=1" format="html" scope="external"
                >corrections and improvements</xref> to existing topics.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.1...3.1.1" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v3.1">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.1 <ph outputclass="small">released June 9, 2018</ph></title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 includes <ph id="summary">support for DITA 1.3 SVG
            domain elements, enhanced <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement> processing, and incremental improvements to
            Lightweight DITA processing and PDF output</ph>.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="features">
        <title>Features</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 includes the following new features:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.1+is%3Aclosed+label%3Afeature+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="2875">A new Java wrapper for the XSLT <codeph>mapref</codeph> map resolution module allows for better
            handling of content references and key references in nested maps.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2875" format="html" scope="external">#2875</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2880">Updates to the Java code that calls Saxon now support integrated extension functions for Saxon
            HE (versions ≥ 9.2).
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2880" format="html" scope="external">#2880</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2932">A new end-to-end test case ensures a basic test is run for all supported transformation types
            with every update to DITA-OT.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2932" format="html" scope="external">#2932</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2960">DITA-OT now supports the DITA 1.3 SVG domain elements, including <xmlelement>svgref</xmlelement>
            for pulling in external SVG markup.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2960" format="html" scope="external">#2960</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2961">PDF output now supports key-based linking for phrase like elements, including
              <xmlelement>cite</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>dt</xmlelement>. When key
            definitions specify a URI for linking, the links will now appear in PDF. This markup already resulted in
            links in HTML output, and resulted in PDF links for key references on <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> and
              <xmlelement>term</xmlelement>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2025" format="html" scope="external">#2025</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2961" format="html" scope="external">#2961</xref>
          </li>
          <li>Processing for <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement> elements has been enhanced to support new
              <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> keywords that can be used to adjust the presentation of code samples.
            <ul>
              <li id="2907">To remove leading whitespace in external code references, set the
                  <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute to include the <codeph>normalize-space</codeph> keyword. With
                this setting, DITA-OT trims any leading whitespace that is common to all lines in the code block to
                remove excess indentation and keep lines short.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2907" format="html" scope="external">#2907</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2953" format="html" scope="external">#2953</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="2975">To highlight whitespace characters in code blocks, set the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>
                attribute to include the <codeph>show-whitespace</codeph> keyword. When PDF output is generated, space
                characters in the code will be replaced with a middle dot or “interpunct” character
                ( <codeph>·</codeph> ); tab characters are replaced with a rightwards arrow and three spaces
                  ( <codeph>→   </codeph> ).
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2975" format="html" scope="external">#2975</xref>
              </li>
              <li>To add line numbers to code blocks in PDF output, set the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute to
                include the <codeph>show-line-numbers</codeph> keyword. <note>Line numbering has been available since
                  DITA-OT 2.0, but previously required custom PDF plug-ins to override the
                    <codeph>codeblock.generate-line-number</codeph> template mode to return <codeph>true()</codeph>.
                  DITA-OT 3.1 now checks for the keyword in the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>, so line numbering can be
                  enabled without custom PDF plug-ins.</note>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements and changes</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 includes the following enhancements and changes to
          existing features:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.1+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="2079">The error message generated for duplicate key definitions has been updated for clarity.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2079" format="html" scope="external">#2079</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2890">Ant scripts for DITA-OT builds now make use of <xmlatt>if:set</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>unless:set</xmlatt> attributes in the Ant namespace, which can be used to control whether
            parameters are passed to XSLT modules. These attributes replace custom implementations of
              <codeph>if</codeph> and <codeph>unless</codeph> logic introduced before Ant had this capability.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2890" format="html" scope="external">#2890</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2938">The PDF build code has been refactored and simplified to use the
              <xmlelement>xmlcatalog</xmlelement> element instead of using a custom <codeph>xml.catalog.files</codeph>
            property.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2938" format="html" scope="external">#2938</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="2939">Removes the redundant map2html5Impl.xsl import
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2939" format="html" scope="external">#2939</xref>
          </li>
          -->
          <li id="2964">Alternate text for images is now preserved in the XSL-FO files generated for PDF, using the
            custom attributes necessary for <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP, RenderX XEP, and Antenna
            House processors. The alternate text is now available in the final output file when processors generate
            accessible PDF.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2850" format="html" scope="external">#2850</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2964" format="html" scope="external">#2964</xref></li>
          <li id="2967">In PDF processing with <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP, DITA-OT 3.1 now uses
            the Simple Logging Facade for Java (SLF4J), allowing for better control and formatting of FOP log messages.
            To reduce noise on the console, all FOP messages are set to the Info level and hidden by default.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2967" format="html" scope="external">#2967</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2970">The HTML5 XSLT stylesheets used to create TOC navigation have been refactored to use a new
            processing mode. This removes the "Duplicate import of <filepath>map2html5Impl.xsl</filepath>" message that
            appeared with DITA-OT 3.0.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2821" format="html" scope="external">#2821</xref>
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2970" format="html" scope="external">#2970</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2972">The distribution build has been updated to use the documentation Gradle build instead of Ant.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2972" format="html" scope="external">#2972</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2974">The bundled <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP version has been updated to <ph
              keyref="tool.fop.version"/>. (For details on recent changes, see the
            <xref keyref="fop-23-rn"/>.)
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2974" format="html" scope="external">#2974</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2976" format="html" scope="external">#2976</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2978">The <xmlatt>frame</xmlatt> attribute on <xmlelement>choicetable</xmlelement> elements is now
            respected in PDF output; previously all values for <xmlatt>frame</xmlatt> on this element were ignored in
            PDF.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2978" format="html" scope="external">#2978</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2982">The LwDITA plugin has been updated to version 2.0.5, pulling in a number of fixes for
            Lightweight DITA processing. (Topic metadata is now preserved in YAML headers when generating Markdown for
            composite topics, autolinks in Markdown topics are treated as external cross references, and definition
            lists in Markdown input and links to ID fragments are now handled correctly.)
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2982" format="html" scope="external">#2982</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2993" format="html" scope="external">#2993</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2984">PDF processing now includes a hook that can be used to add custom
              <xmlelement>fo:marker</xmlelement> elements on any topic. New processing hooks are also available to add
            custom anchors on any topic or titled sub-topic element, intended as a way to enable stable links into a
            location within a PDF.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2984" format="html" scope="external">#2984</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2991">The Gradle wrapper used to run the documentation build has been updated to version 4.8.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2991" format="html" scope="external">#2991</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2994" format="html" scope="external">#2994</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.0+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="2494">When a nested map uses <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> to pull content from another map, but the root
            map does <i>not</i> use <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, the content reference was not previously resolved. This is
            now fixed, and content references in all maps used by the build are resolved properly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2494" format="html" scope="external">#2494</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2898">When a <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> element refers to another map that is not a bookmap, PDF
            processing now formats the referenced content as a chapter. In earlier versions, the content could be
            formatted as a generic topic that did not match other chapters in the same map.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2898" format="html" scope="external">#2898</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2958">The error message <msgnum>DOTJ007E</msgnum>, which appeared for duplicate filter conditions in
            DITAVAL properties, has been switched from an Error to a Warning. This message, which usually does not
            indicate a problem that results in broken output, will now appear as <msgnum>DOTJ007W</msgnum>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2958" format="html" scope="external">#2958</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2973">The empty <filepath>temp/</filepath> directory included in DITA-OT 3.0 distribution packages has
            been removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2973" format="html" scope="external">#2973</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="2978">
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2978" format="html" scope="external">#2978</xref>
          </li>
          -->
          <li id="2985">Several duplicate ID messages that appeared in PDF processing have been fixed by removing
            incorrect ID definitions. These messages could previously appear when nested elements inside of topic titles
            or topic short descriptions specified their own <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute; in DITA-OT 3.0, this also
            appeared for all <xmlelement>pt</xmlelement> elements that specified <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2985" format="html" scope="external">#2985</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2990">Several unnecessary files have been removed from the <filepath>docsrc/</filepath> folder of the
            distribution package.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/2990" format="html" scope="external">#2990</xref>
          </li>

        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 3.0..` -->
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to the core toolkit, not docs.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Robert D. Anderson</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu </li>
          <li>Alexey Mironov</li>
          <li>Stefan Eike</li>
          <li>Shane Taylor</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/2.5...3.0" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="docs">
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 provides corrections and
          improvements to existing topics, along with new information in the following topics:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="extended-functionality"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="plugin-coding-conventions"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="migrating-to-3.1"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="log-files"/></li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on documentation issues resolved in DITA Open Toolkit Release <keyword
            keyref="release"/>, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/issues?q=milestone%3A3.1+is%3Aclosed" format="html"
            scope="external">
            3.1 milestone</xref> in the documentation repository.</p>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.1 includes
          <xref keyref="docs-contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to docs, not to the core toolkit.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Robert D. Anderson</li>
          <li>Lief Erickson</li>
          <li>Stefan Eike</li>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Eero Helenius</li>
          <li>François Violette</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of documentation changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/3.0...3.1" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
</reference>
