<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="ID" rev="3.2">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 3.2.1 Release Notes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Release Notes</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 3.2.1 is a maintenance release that fixes issues
      reported in DITA-OT 3.2, which includes <ph conref="#v3.2/summary"/>.</shortdesc>
    <p conkeyref="conref-task/semver-info"/>
    <note type="tip"><ph conref="../resources/conref-task.dita#ID/download-ot"/></note>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have changed
          since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 requires the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) version
            <keyword keyref="tool.java.version"/> or later.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v3.2.1">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.2.1
      <ph outputclass="small">released December 6, 2018</ph></title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 3.2.1 is a maintenance release that includes the
          following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="3140">In earlier releases, the base directory resolution treated input files as local resources. Input
            file handling has been extended to support non-local (HTTP and HTTPS) input URIs.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3140" format="html" scope="external">#3140</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3148">The parsing mechanism for <keyword keyref="semver"/> was extended to support pre-release
            versions and build metadata in plug-in repository version information.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3148" format="html" scope="external">#3148</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3155">In earlier releases, branch filtering using <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement> elements failed
            when the map included references outside the scope of the map directory. This has been fixed and filtered
            topics are handled as expected.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3155" format="html" scope="external">#3155</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3156">To make XSLT import and include elements consistent, remaining relative URIs in the default
            plug-ins were rewritten to use the absolute <codeph>plugin</codeph> URI scheme. This allows Saxon to detect
            duplicate imports more easily and makes it easier to copy import and include elements to other stylesheets.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3156" format="html" scope="external">#3156</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3159" format="html" scope="external">#3159</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3163" format="html" scope="external">#3163</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="112">The plugin registry UI at <keyword keyref="site-plugin-registry"/> was not working on certain
            older Windows browsers that do not support all of the necessary Javascript features. Polyfills were added to
            allow these browsers to correctly display the list of available plug-ins.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot.github.io/issues/112" format="html" scope="external"
              >#112</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot.github.io/pull/113" format="html" scope="external"
              >#113</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot.github.io/pull/114" format="html" scope="external"
              >#114</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on the issues resolved since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.2.1+is%3Aclosed" format="html"
            scope="external">
            3.2 milestone</xref> and
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.2...3.2.1" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v3.2">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.2
      <ph outputclass="small">released November 3, 2018</ph></title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 includes <ph id="summary">new command-line options,
            support for RELAX NG parsing and validation, preliminary processing for the XDITA authoring format proposed
            for Lightweight DITA, and a plug-in registry that makes it easier to discover and install new
          plug-ins</ph>.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="features">
        <title>Feature Highlights</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 includes the following new features:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.2+is%3Aclosed+label%3Afeature+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="1960">
            <p>The <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command has been extended with several new arguments and options to improve
              the usability of the plug-in installation and removal processes.</p>
            <ul>
              <li>The <parmname>--plugins</parmname> argument shows a list of the currently installed plug-ins</li>
              <li>The <parmname>--transtypes</parmname> argument shows the available output formats (transformation
                types)</li>
              <li>The <parmname>--force</parmname> option can be passed to
                  <cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--install</parmname> to overwrite an existing plug-in with a new
                version.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>When the plug-in integration process runs, the console now shows a list of plug-ins that were added or
              removed.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1960" format="html" scope="external">#1960</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3037" format="html" scope="external">#3037</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3070" format="html" scope="external">#3070</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3120" format="html" scope="external">#3120</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3109" format="html" scope="external">#3109</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3110" format="html" scope="external">#3110</xref></p>
          </li>
          <li id="2019">
            <p>RELAX NG schemas can now be used to parse and validate DITA topics and maps without installing additional
              plug-ins.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2019" format="html" scope="external">#2019</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3106" format="html" scope="external">#3106</xref></p>
            <p>To use a RELAX NG schema instead of a DTD or schema, add an <xmlpi>xml-model</xmlpi> processing
              instruction at the beginning of the file, immediately after the XML prolog, for example:</p>
            <p><xmlpi>xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:topic.rng"
                schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"</xmlpi>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li id="3108">
            <p>DITA-OT 3.2 adds preliminary processing for the XDITA authoring format proposed for Lightweight DITA in
              addition to the preview support for the MDITA and HDITA authoring formats provided in DITA-OT 3.0.</p>
            <p>The <codeph>org.oasis-open.xdita</codeph> plug-in version 0.2.2 is now bundled with the default
              distribution. XDITA is a subset of DITA designed for users who want to write DITA content but who do not
              want (or need) the full power of DITA.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3108" format="html" scope="external">#3108</xref>
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3136" format="html" scope="external">#3136</xref>
            </p>
            <note type="tip">For examples of cross-format content sharing between topics in XDITA, HDITA,
              extended-profile MDITA, and DITA 1.3, see the LwDITA sample files in the DITA-OT installation directory
              under <filepath>plugins/org.oasis-open.xdita.v0_2_2/samples</filepath>.</note>
          </li>
          <li id="3028">
            <p><ph conkeyref="plugins-registry/registry-summary"/></p>
            <p>For more information, see
              <xref keyref="plugins-registry"/>.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3028" format="html" scope="external">#3028</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3101" format="html" scope="external">#3101</xref>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li id="3102">
            <p>A new parameter <parmname>link-crawl</parmname> has been added to control whether links within topics are
              followed.</p>
            <p>By default, links within topics are followed, as are links in any found topics, so that a map with one
              topic can end up processing any number of topics. When <parmname>link-crawl</parmname> is set to
                <codeph>map</codeph> instead of the default <codeph>topic</codeph>, DITA-OT will only process topics
              that are actually referenced in the map.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3102" format="html" scope="external">#3102</xref>
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements and changes</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 includes the following enhancements and changes to
          existing features:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.2+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="1132">Text-only entries in relationship tables (with link text but no <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute)
            now create plain text entries in the related links section of relevant topics. This update also removes an
            unnecessary error message for <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> elements that
            do not specify <xmlatt>href</xmlatt>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1132" format="html" scope="external">#1132</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3030" format="html" scope="external">#3030</xref></li>
          <li id="1248">XSL-FO output for for <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>example</xmlelement>
            elements has been updated for consistency, ensuring that all default sections use the same blocks and
            attribute sets.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1248" format="html" scope="external">#1248</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3057" format="html" scope="external">#3057</xref></li>
          <li id="1414">In earlier versions, PDF builds would finish with <msgph>BUILD SUCCESSFUL</msgph> even when the
            XSL-FO process failed. This behavior has been adjusted so the build fails if the XSL-FO processor cannot
            create the PDF file.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1414" format="html" scope="external">#1414</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1831" format="html" scope="external">#1831</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3137" format="html" scope="external">#3137</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2033">In earlier releases, when XHTML and HTML5 processing encountered an unknown element with no
            fallback processing, the result appeared in yellow. These output processes have been updated to generate a
            warning for this case, and to remove the yellow formatting.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2033" format="html" scope="external">#2033</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3035" format="html" scope="external">#3035</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2403">The default TOC alignment of "justify" has been removed for PDF output with FOP. This was
            originally added to work around a defect in FOP; that defect is resolved, so the workaround can be removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2403" format="html" scope="external">#2403</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3036" format="html" scope="external">#3036</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2461">When a grammar file (DTD, Schema, or RNG) cannot be found, DITA-OT previously issued a "file
            cannot be loaded" exception that only referred to the map or topic. A new message has been added to
            distinguish between topics that cannot be found and grammar files that are not available or not installed
            properly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2461" format="html" scope="external">#2461</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3124" format="html" scope="external">#3124</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2479">Most values for the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute have no meaning for PDF processing, which
            always produces a single output file. Beginning with this release, chunk processing will be disabled by
            default in PDF. It can be re-enabled for <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute edge cases by setting
              <codeph>org.dita.pdf2.chunk.enabled=true</codeph>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2479" format="html" scope="external">#2479</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3118" format="html" scope="external">#3118</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="2481">The quote element <xmlelement>q</xmlelement> now generates an equivalent XHTML and HTML5
              <xmlelement>q</xmlelement> element, rather than generating quote characters. This improves accessibility
            of the XHTML and HTML5 output, and defers any internationalization concerns to settings within the browser.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2481" format="html" scope="external">#2481</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3032" format="html" scope="external">#3032</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3009">In PDF output, the long quote element <xmlelement>lq</xmlelement> is now indented by default, as
            with other output formats.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3009" format="html" scope="external">#3009</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3031" format="html" scope="external">#3031</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3011">The previously deprecated <codeph>dost.jar.path</codeph> alias has been removed, and the
              <codeph>dost.class.path</codeph> property to which it referred has been deprecated, as the classpath is
            now defined outside the Ant process.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3011" format="html" scope="external">#3011</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3020">HTML5 CSS configuration has been refactored to improve test coverage and simplify property
            declarations.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3020" format="html" scope="external">#3020</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3025">Legacy arguments for the old Java command-line interface that were deprecated in DITA-OT 2.3
            have now been removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3025" format="html" scope="external">#3025</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3039">PDF output now provides generic hazard statement styling based on the ISO 3864 and ANSI Z535
            standards, with an SVG icon and XSL variables for the corresponding ISO and ANSI color definitions.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3039" format="html" scope="external">#3039</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3050">The XSL import tree for PDF output has been flattened by moving
              <filepath>topic-attr.xsl</filepath> and <filepath>concept-attr.xsl</filepath> imports to the
              <filepath>topic2fo.xsl</filepath> shell. In earlier versions, overriding these files required additional
            modifications to <filepath>commons-attr.xsl</filepath>, from which they were imported.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3050" format="html" scope="external">#3050</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3056">In all earlier releases, links to topics or other elements with titles would automatically
            retrieve the title for use as link text, but links to the title would not. With the growing use of WYSIWYG
            editors, it is easy to set (and link to) IDs directly on titles rather than on the container. Accordingly,
            output transforms have been updated to pull the same link text when a reference points to a title as for a
            reference to a container. The same update is made for links to definition list terms and the containing
            definition list entries.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3056" format="html" scope="external">#3056</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3059">An alternative installation method can now be used to install DITA-OT on macOS via the
            <xref keyref="homebrew"/> package manager. See
            <xref keyref="installing-via-homebrew"/> for details.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3059" format="html" scope="external">#3059</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3079">The <codeph>topicpull</codeph> step of DITA-OT preprocessing is used primarily to update link
            text. This step previously ran on all located topics in the build, but this processing was not useful for
              <codeph>resource-only</codeph> topics that are not published. Accordingly, the <codeph>topicpull</codeph>
            step has been updated to only run on normal-role topics.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3079" format="html" scope="external">#3079</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3084">In earlier releases, <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> resolution would fail with an error when the
            referring document had a constraint that was not also specified on the target document (as when referencing
            DITA content from an XDITA topic, for example). Based on the DITA specification, this is an error condition
            but should only fail when the constraint is defined as "strict". Accordingly, the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
            processor has been updated to allow resolution of <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> with an error for ordinary
            constraints.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3084" format="html" scope="external">#3084</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3097" format="html" scope="external">#3097</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3090">ARIA role attributes have been extracted from structural HTML5 elements into attribute sets to
            make it easier to override roles or add custom class attributes as required by popular web frameworks.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3090" format="html" scope="external">#3090</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3100">PDF output has been updated so that if change bars are used for revisions and an entire topic is
            revised, the change bar will also appear alongside the title in the table of contents and the full topic.
            Previously the bar only appeared alongside the topic body.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3100" format="html" scope="external">#3100</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3111" format="html" scope="external">#3111</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3107">Unnecessary dependencies for common Java libraries have been removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3107" format="html" scope="external">#3107</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3114">The command-line help for the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command has been updated to clarify the
            list of arguments and options.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3114" format="html" scope="external">#3114</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3121">A single NOTICES file is now generated with the license information for all third-party
            libraries included in the distribution package.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3121" format="html" scope="external">#3121</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.2+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="3063">When a <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element is nested in <xmlelement>abstract</xmlelement>
            along with other elements and PDF output is generated with the default chapter layout, earlier versions of
            DITA-OT indented the short description further than its siblings. Processing has been updated to ensure that
            the correct indentation from the parent is applied for both BASIC and MINITOC layouts.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3063" format="html" scope="external">#3063</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/3116" format="html" scope="external">#3116</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3091">In earlier releases, footnotes defined inside elements with extra styling (such as bold, italic,
            or centered text) erroneously applied the anchor style to the footnote body in PDF output. These footnotes
            are now rendered with the same formatting as other footnotes.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3091" format="html" scope="external">#3091</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3115">In PDF output generated with earlier releases, <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> elements were
            rendered with nothing more than a new line. This has been corrected to render logical division elements like
            other blocks, separated by a bit of space from the previous block (and pick up any standard overrides from
            the <codeph>common.block</codeph> attribute set).
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3115" format="html" scope="external">#3115</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3117">Default formatting for <xmlelement>xmlpi</xmlelement> elements has been added to all output
            types (including HTML-based formats, PDF, and troff) to ensure that XML processing instructions are wrapped
            in question marks and angle brackets. A processing instruction tagged as <codeph>&lt;xmlpi&gt;test
              this&lt;/xmlpi&gt;</codeph> is now rendered in the output as <codeph>&lt;?test this?&gt;</codeph>.
            <xref format="html" href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3117" scope="external">#3117</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3119">In earlier releases, the conref push module did not properly handle namespaced debugging
            attributes. (It wrote out the attribute but removed the namespace declaration.) The namespaces are now
            preserved.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3119" format="html" scope="external">#3119</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3127">When the same document appeared more than once in a map, cascading metadata was added for every
            instance of that document. For maps that reference individual topics in a large document (such as a document
            with 500 small topics), this resulted in <msgph>OutOfMemory</msgph> errors from the
              <codeph>move-meta</codeph> preprocessing step. This has been fixed so metadata is handled properly for
            each reference to a document.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3127" format="html" scope="external">#3127</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3128">In earlier releases, input documents that included tables with the <xmlatt>frame</xmlatt>
            attribute set to <codeph>"none"</codeph> generated invalid HTML5 markup (<codeph>border="0"</codeph>).
            Processing has been corrected to ensure that the <xmlatt>border</xmlatt> attribute is omitted for tables
            that have no border.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3128" format="html" scope="external">#3128</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3139" format="html" scope="external">#3139</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 3.1..` -->
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to the core toolkit, not docs.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Robert D Anderson</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Stefan Gentz</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu</li>
          <li>Lief Erickson</li>
          <li>Stefan Eike</li>
          <li>Alexey Mironov</li>
          <li>Eero Helenius</li>
          <li>Sean Molenaar</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.1...3.2" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="docs">
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 provides corrections and
          improvements to existing topics, along with new information in the following topics:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="installing-via-homebrew"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="lwdita-input"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="plugins-registry"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="plugin-coding-conventions"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="plugin-configfile"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="books"/></li>
        </ul>
        <p>Additional use cases and sample files are now provided in
          <xref keyref="html-customization-plugins"/>, including:
          <ul>
            <li>
              <xref keyref="html-customization-plugin-bundle-css"/></li>
            <li>
              <xref keyref="html-customization-plugin-javascript"/></li>
            <li>
              <xref keyref="html-customization-plugin-webfont"/></li>
          </ul>
          <note type="tip">The files for these sample plug-ins are available on
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/tree/develop/samples/plugins" format="html" scope="external"
              >GitHub</xref> and included in the DITA-OT installation directory under
              <filepath>docsrc/samples/plugins/</filepath>.</note>
        </p>
        <p>For additional information on documentation issues resolved in DITA Open Toolkit Release <keyword
            keyref="release"/>, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/issues?q=milestone%3A3.2+is%3Aclosed" format="html"
            scope="external">
            3.2 milestone</xref> in the documentation repository.</p>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.2 includes
          <xref keyref="docs-contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to docs, not to the core toolkit.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Robert D Anderson</li>
          <li>Mark Giffin</li>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of documentation changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/3.1...3.2" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
</reference>
