<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="flagging-migration" rev="1.7" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>XHTML migration for flagging updates in DITA-OT 1.7</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Flagging updates</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>This topic is primarily of interest to developers with XHTML transform overrides written prior to DITA-OT
    1.7. Due to significant changes in the flagging process with the 1.7 release, some changes may be needed to make
    overrides work properly with DITAVAL-based flagging. The new design is significantly simpler than the old design; in
    many cases, migration will consist of deleting old code that is no longer needed.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>ul</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>mode="elementname-fmt"</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>deprecated features<indexterm><codeph>DITAVAL templates</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm>template changes in 1.7</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS<indexterm>gen-style</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>flagging</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Which XHTML overrides need to migrate?</title>
      <p>If your override does not contain any code related to DITAVAL flagging, then there is nothing to migrate.</p>
      <p>If your builds do not make use of DITAVAL-based flagging, but call the deprecated flagging templates, then you
        should override but there is little urgency. You will not see any difference in the output, but those templates
        will be removed in a future release.</p>
      <p>If you do make use of DITAVAL-based flagging, try using your override with 1.7. Check the elements you
        override:
        <ol>
          <li>In some cases flags may be doubled. This will be the case if you call routines such as
              <codeph>"start-flagit"</codeph>.</li>
          <li>In some cases flags may be removed. This will be the case if you call shortcut routines such as
              <codeph>"revtext"</codeph> or <codeph>"revblock"</codeph>.</li>
          <li>In other cases, flags may still appear properly, in which case migration is less urgent.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>For any override that needs migration, please see the instructions that follow.</p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Deprecated templates in DITA-OT 1.7</title>
      <p>All of the old DITAVAL based templates are deprecated in DITA-OT 1.7. If your overrides include any of the
        following templates, they should be migrated for the new release; in many cases the templates below will not
        have any effect on your output, but all instances should be migrated.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The <codeph>"gen-style"</codeph> template used to add CSS styling</li>
        <li>The <codeph>"start-flagit"</codeph> and <codeph>"end-flagit"</codeph> templates used to generate image flags
          based on property attributes like @audience</li>
        <li>The <codeph>"start-revflag"</codeph> and <codeph>"end-revflag"</codeph> templates, used to generate images
          for active revisions</li>
        <li>Shortcut templates that group these templates into a single call, such as:
          <ul>
            <li><codeph>"start-flags-and-rev"</codeph> and <codeph>"end-flags-and-rev"</codeph>, used to combine flags
              and revisions into one call</li>
            <li><codeph>"revblock"</codeph> and <codeph>"revtext"</codeph>, both used to output start revisions, element
              content, and end revisions</li>
            <li>The modes <codeph>"outputContentsWithFlags"</codeph> and
                <codeph>"outputContentsWithFlagsAndStyle"</codeph>, both used to combine processing for
              property/revision flags with content processing</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>All other templates that make use of the <codeph>$flagrules</codeph> variable, which is no longer used in
          any of the DITA-OT 1.7 code</li>
        <li>All templates within <filepath>flag.xsl</filepath> that were called from the templates listed above</li>
        <li>Element processing handled with mode="elementname-fmt", such as <codeph>mode="ul-fmt"</codeph> for
          processing unordered lists and <codeph>mode="section-fmt"</codeph> for sections.</li>
      </ul></section>
    <section>
      <title>What replaces the templates?</title>
      <p>The new flagging design described in the preprocess design section now adds literal copies of relevant DITAVAL
        elements, along with CSS based flagging information, into the relevant section of the topic. This allows most
        flags to be processed in document order; in addition, there is never a need to read the DITAVAL, interpret CSS,
        or evaluate flagging logic. The <filepath>htmlflag.xsl</filepath> file contains a few rules to match and process
        the start/end flags; in most cases, all code to explicitly process flags can be deleted.</p>
      <p>For example, the common logic for most element rules before DITA-OT 1.7 could be boiled down to the following:
        <ol>
          <li>Match element </li>
          <li>Create <codeph>"flagrules"</codeph> variable by reading DITAVAL for active flags </li>
          <li>Output start tag such as <codeph>&lt;div></codeph> or <codeph>&lt;span></codeph>
          </li>
          <li>Call <codeph>"commonattributes"</codeph> and ID processing </li>
          <li>Call <codeph>"gen-style"</codeph> with <codeph>$flagrules</codeph>, to create DITAVAL based CSS </li>
          <li>Call <codeph>"start-flagit"</codeph> with <codeph>$flagrules</codeph>, to create start flag images </li>
          <li>Call <codeph>"start-revflag"</codeph> with <codeph>$flagrules</codeph>, to create start revision images </li>
          <li>Output contents </li>
          <li>Call <codeph>"end-revflag"</codeph> with <codeph>$flagrules</codeph>, to create end revision images </li>
          <li>Call <codeph>"end-flagit"</codeph> with <codeph>$flagrules</codeph>, to create end flag images </li>
          <li>Output end tag such as <codeph>&lt;/div></codeph> or <codeph>&lt;/span></codeph></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p>In DITA-OT 1.7, style and images are typically handled with XSLT fallthrough processing. This removes virtually
        all special flag coding from element rules, because flags are already part of the document and processed in
        document order. </p>
      <p>The sample above is reduced to:
        <ol>
          <li>Match element </li>
          <li>Output start tag such as <codeph>&lt;div></codeph> or <codeph>&lt;span></codeph>
          </li>
          <li>Call <codeph>"commonattributes"</codeph> and ID processing </li>
          <li>Output contents </li>
          <li>Output end tag such as <codeph>&lt;/div></codeph> or <codeph>&lt;/span></codeph></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Migrating <codeph>"gen-style"</codeph> named template</title>
      <p>Calls to the <codeph>"gen-style"</codeph> template should be deleted. There is no need to replace this call for
        most elements.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>"gen-style"</codeph> template was designed to read a DITAVAL file, find active style-based flagging
        (such as colored or bold text), and add it to the generated @style attribute in HTML.</p>
      <p>With DITA-OT 1.7, the style is calculated in the pre-process flagging module. The result is created as
        @outputclass on a <codeph>&lt;ditaval-startprop></codeph> sub-element. The <codeph>"commonattributes"</codeph>
        template now includes a line to process that value; the result is that for every element that calls
          <codeph>"commonattributes"</codeph>, DITAVAL style will be processed when needed. Because virtually every
        element includes a call to this common template, there is little chance that your override needs to explicitly
        process the style. The new line in <codeph>"commonattributes"</codeph> that handles the style is:
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:apply-templates select="*[contains(@class,' ditaot-d/ditaval-startprop ')]/@outputclass" mode="add-ditaval-style"/></codeblock></p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Migrating <codeph>"start-flagit"</codeph>, <codeph>"start-revflag"</codeph>, <codeph>"end-flagit"</codeph>,
        and <codeph>"end-flagit"</codeph> named templates</title>
      <p>Calls to these templates fall into two general groups.</p>
      <p>If the flow of your element rule is to create a start tag like <codeph>&lt;div></codeph>,
          <codeph>"start-flagit"</codeph>/<codeph>"start-revflag"</codeph>, process contents,
          <codeph>"end-revflag"</codeph>/<codeph>"end-flagit"</codeph>, end tag - you just need to delete the calls to
        these templates. Flags will be generated simply by processing the element contents in document order.</p>
      <p>If the flow of your element rule processes flags outside of the normal document-order. There are generally two
        reasons this is done. The first case is for elements like <codeph>&lt;ol></codeph>, where flags must appear
        before the <codeph>&lt;ol></codeph> in order to create valid XHTML. The second is for elements like
          <codeph>&lt;section></codeph>, where start flags are created, followed by the title or some generated text,
        element contents, and finally end flags. In either of these cases, support for processing flags in document
        order is disabled, so they must be explicitly processed out-of-line.</p>
      <p>This is done with the following two lines (one for start flag/revision, one for end flag/revision):</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Create starting flag and revision images:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:apply-templates select="*[contains(@class,' ditaot-d/ditaval-startprop ')]" mode="out-of-line"/></codeblock></li>
        <li>
          <p>Create ending flag and revision images:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:apply-templates select="*[contains(@class,' ditaot-d/ditaval-endprop ')]" mode="out-of-line"/></codeblock></li>
      </ul>
      <p>For example, the following lines are used in DITA-OT 1.7 to process the <xmlelement>ul</xmlelement> element
        (replacing the 29 lines used in DITA-OT
        1.6):<codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class,' topic/ul ')]">
  <b>&lt;xsl:apply-templates select="*[contains(@class,' ditaot-d/ditaval-startprop ')]" mode="out-of-line"/></b>
  &lt;xsl:call-template name="setaname"/>
  &lt;ul>
    &lt;xsl:call-template name="commonattributes"/>
    &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="@compact"/>
    &lt;xsl:call-template name="setid"/>
    &lt;xsl:apply-templates/>
  &lt;/ul>
  <b>&lt;xsl:apply-templates select="*[contains(@class,' ditaot-d/ditaval-endprop ')]" mode="out-of-line"/></b>
  &lt;xsl:value-of select="$newline"/>
&lt;/xsl:template></codeblock></p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Migrating <codeph>"start-flags-and-rev"</codeph> and <codeph>"end-flags-and-rev"</codeph></title>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>"start-flags-and-rev"</codeph> is equivalent to calling <codeph>"start-flagit"</codeph> followed by
            <codeph>"start-revflag"</codeph>; it should be migrated as in the previous section.</li>
        <li><codeph>"end-flags-and-rev"</codeph> is equivalent to calling <codeph>"end-revflag"</codeph> followed by
            <codeph>"end-flagit"</codeph>; it should be migrated as in the previous section.</li>
      </ul></section>
    <section>
      <title>Migrating <codeph>"revblock"</codeph> and <codeph>"revtext"</codeph></title>
      <p>Calls to these two templates can be replaced with a simple call to
        <codeph>&lt;xsl:apply-templates/></codeph>.</p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Migrating modes <codeph>"outputContentsWithFlags"</codeph> and
          <codeph>"outputContentsWithFlagsAndStyle"</codeph></title>
      <p>Processing an element with either of these modes can be replaced with a simple call to
          <codeph>&lt;xsl:apply-templates/></codeph>.</p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Migrating <codeph>mode="elementname-fmt"</codeph></title>
      <p>Prior to DITA-OT 1.7, many elements were processed with the following
        logic:<pre>Match element
    Set variable to determine if revisions are active and $DRAFT is on
    If active
        create division with rev style
            process element with mode="elementname-fmt"
        end division
    Else
        process element with mode="elementname-fmt"

Match element with mode="elementname-fmt"
    Process as needed</pre></p>
      <p>Beginning with DITA-OT 1.7, styling from revisions is handled automatically with the
          <codeph>"commonattributes"</codeph> template. This means there is no need for the extra testing, or the
        indirection to <codeph>mode="elementname-fmt"</codeph>. These templates are deprecated, and element processing
        will move into the main element rule. Overrides that include this indirection may remove it; overrides should
        also be sure to match the default rule, rather than matching with
      <codeph>mode="elementname-fmt"</codeph>.</p></section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
