<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="API">
  <title>Using the Java API</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit includes a Java Application Programming Interface to allow developers to embed the
    toolkit more easily into other Java programs.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Java<indexterm>API</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>API</indexterm>
        <indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command<indexterm>classpath</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Java<indexterm>classpath</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>classpath<indexterm>Java</indexterm><indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>When using the API, programmers don’t need to know or care that DITA-OT uses Ant, they can just use Java. </p>
    <note>When running DITA-OT via the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command, an <codeph>ant</codeph> shell script handles the
      classpath setup, but when using the API the classpath should be set up as part of the normal classpath
      configuration for the Java application.</note>
    <example>
      <title>Example usage</title>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-java normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">// Create a reusable processor factory with DITA-OT base directory
ProcessorFactory pf = ProcessorFactory.newInstance(ditaDir);
// and set the temporary directory
pf.setBaseTempDir(tempDir);

// Create a processor using the factory and configure the processor
Processor p = pf.newProcessor("html5")
.setInput(mapFile)
.setOutputDir(outDir)
.setProperty("nav-toc", "partial");

// Run conversion
p.run();</codeblock>
    </example>
    <section>
      <indexterm>debugging<indexterm>logging</indexterm></indexterm>
      <p>By default, running DITA-OT via the API will write a debug log to the temporary directory. A custom SLF4J
        logger can also be used to access the log via the Simple Logging Facade for Java.</p>
      <p>The processor cleans the temporary directory by default, but this can be disabled to simplify debugging in
        cases where the processor failed.</p>
      <note type="tip">See the <cite>DITA-OT Java API documentation</cite> in the <filepath>doc/api/</filepath> folder
        of the DITA-OT distribution package for information on the packages, classes, interfaces and methods provided by
        the Java API.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Downloading DITA-OT from Maven Central</title>
      <indexterm>Maven Central</indexterm>
      <p>As of version 2.5, the DITA Open Toolkit base library (<filepath>dost.jar</filepath>) is available via the
        Maven 2 Central Repository. You can use this mechanism to download the main JAR file and include it in the build
        for other Java projects.</p>
      <p>To locate the latest version, <xref href="https://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22org.dita-ot%22"
          format="html" scope="external">search for the <codeph>org.dita-ot</codeph> group ID</xref>.</p>
      <note type="important">The <filepath>dost.jar</filepath> file provides only the DITA Open Toolkit base library. It
        does <b>not</b> contain the full DITA-OT distribution and cannot be used to run DITA-OT by itself. You will need
        to ensure that your build installs the other files and directories required for the toolkit along with the
        dependencies for your project.</note>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
