<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="preprocess-topicpull" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Pull content into topics (topicpull)</title>
  <shortdesc>The <codeph>topicpull</codeph> step pulls content into <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> and
      <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements. This step is implemented in XSLT.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>link</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>desc</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>preprocessing<indexterm><codeph>topicpull</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><codeph>topicpull</codeph></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm><codeph>topicpull</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section><p>If an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element does not contain link text, the target is examined and the link text is
        pulled. For example, a reference to a topic pulls the title of the topic; a reference to a list item pulls the
        number of the item. If the <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element references a topic that has a short
        description, and the <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element does not already contain a child
          <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element, a <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element is created that contains the
        text from the topic short description.</p><p>The process is similar for <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements. If the <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element does
        not have a child <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element, one is created with the appropriate link text.
        Similarly, if the <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element does not have a child <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement>
        element, and the short description of the target can be determined, a <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element is
        created that contains the text from the topic short description.</p></section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
