<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "referenceconcept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="preprocess-metadata" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Move metadata (move-meta-entries) and pull content into maps (mappull) </title>
  <shortdesc>The <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph> step pushes metadata back and forth between maps and topics. For
    example, index entries and copyrights in the map are pushed into affected topics, so that the topics can be
    processed later in isolation while retaining all relevant metadata. This step is implemented in Java.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>type</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>toc</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>print</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm>preprocessing<indexterm><codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Java<indexterm>move-meta-entries</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm>moving</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm><codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>index<indexterm>entries in map file</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>TOC<index-see>table of contents</index-see></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <conbody>
    <note>As of DITA-OT 2.2, the <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph> and <codeph>mappull</codeph> steps have been merged.
      The <codeph>mappull</codeph> step has been moved into <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph>.</note>
    <section>
      <p>The <codeph>mappull</codeph> step pulls content from referenced topics into maps, and then cascades data within
        maps. This step is implemented in XSLT.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>mappull</codeph> step makes the following changes to the DITA map:
        <ul>
          <li>Titles are pulled from referenced DITA topics. Unless the <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> attribute is set to
            "yes", the pulled titles replace the navigation titles specified on the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
            elements.</li>
          <li>The <xmlelement>linktext</xmlelement> element is set based on the title of the referenced topic, unless it
            is already specified locally.</li>
          <li>The <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element is set based on the short description of the referenced
            topic, unless it is already specified locally.</li>
          <li>The <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute is set on <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that reference
            local DITA topics. The value of the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute is set to value of the root element of
            the topic; for example, a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that references a task topic is given a
              <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute set to "task"".</li>
          <li>Attributes that cascade, such as <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>print</xmlatt>, are made explicit on any
            child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements. This allows future steps to work with the attributes
            directly, without reevaluating the cascading behavior.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
