<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="processing-order" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Processing order</title>
  <shortdesc>The order of processing is often significant when evaluating DITA content. Although the DITA specification
    does not mandate a specific order for processing, DITA-OT has determined that performing filtering before conref
    resolution best meets user expectations. Switching the order of processing, while legal, may give different
    results.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>note</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>product</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>conref</xmlatt><indexterm>resolving</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>filters<indexterm>processing order</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing</indexterm>
        <indexterm>pipelines<indexterm>processing order</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <p>The DITA-OT project has found that filtering first provides several benefits. Consider the following sample
        that contains a <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element that both uses conref and contains a
          <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>
        attribute:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;note conref="documentA.dita#doc/note" product="MyProd"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>If the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute is evaluated first, then documentA must be parsed in order to retrieve
        the note content. That content is then stored in the current document (or in a representation of that document
        in memory). However, if all content with product="MyProd" is filtered out, then that work is all discarded later
        in the build.</p>
      <p>If the filtering is done first (as in DITA-OT), this element is discarded immediately, and documentA is never
        examined. This provides several important benefits:
        <ul>
          <li>Time is saved by discarding unused content as early as possible; all future steps can load the document
            without this extra content.</li>
          <li>Additional time is saved case by not evaluating the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute; in fact, documentA
            does not even need to be parsed.</li>
          <li>Any user reproducing this build does not need documentA. If the content is sent to a translation team,
            that team can reproduce an error-free build without documentA; this means documentA can be kept back from
            translation, preventing accidental translation and increased costs.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>If the order of these two steps is reversed, so that conref is evaluated first, it is possible that results
        will differ. For example, in the code sample above, the <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute on the reference
        target will override the product setting on the referencing note. Assume that the referenced
          <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element in documentA is defined as follows:
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;note id="note" product="SomeOtherProduct">This is an important note!&lt;/note></codeblock></p>
      <p>A process that filters out product="SomeOtherProduct" will remove the target of the original conref before that
        conref is ever evaluated, which will result in a broken reference. Evaluating conref first would resolve the
        reference, and only later filter out the target of the conref. While some use cases can be found where this is
        the desired behavior, benefits such as those described above resulted in the current processing order used by
         DITA-OT.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
