<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="xhtmltocjs" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>TocJS processing</title>
  <shortdesc>The <option>tocjs</option> transformation was originally created as a plug-in that was distributed outside
    of the toolkit, but it is now bundled in the default distribution. It generates a JavaScript-based frameset for
    XHTML output with Table of Contents entries that expand and collapse.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>HTML<indexterm>TocJS</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>dita.map.tocjs</indexterm>
        <indexterm>TocJS</indexterm>
        <indexterm>targets<indexterm>TocJS</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>table of contents<indexterm>TocJS</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <p>The following Ant targets control most of the TocJS processing:</p>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>tocjsInit</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Sets up default properties. This target detects whether builds have already specified a name for
              JavaScript control file; if not, the default name <filepath>toctree.js</filepath> is used.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>map2tocjs</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Calls the <codeph>dita.map.tocjs</codeph> target, which generates the contents frame for TocJS
              output.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>tocjsDefaultOutput</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Ensures that the XHTML processing module is run. If scripts are missing required information, such as a
              name for the default frameset, this target copies default style and control files. This target was added
              to DITA-OT in version 1.5.4; earlier versions of the TocJS transformation created only the JavaScript
              control file by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
