<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="XhtmlCommon">
  <title>Common HTML-based processing</title>
  <shortdesc>After the pre-processing operation runs, HTML-based builds each run a common series of Ant targets to
    generate HTML file. Navigation may be created before or after this set of common routines.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt><indexterm>HTML-based processing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITAVAL<indexterm>HTML-based formats</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML<indexterm>common processing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS<indexterm>HTML transforms</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>After the pre-processing is completed, the following targets are run for all of the HTML-based builds:</p>
    <p>
      <ul>
        <li>If the <parmname>args.css</parmname> parameter is passed to the build to add a CSS file, the
            <codeph>copy-css</codeph> target copies the CSS file from its source location to the relative location in
          the output directory.</li>
        <li>If a DITAVAL file is used, the <codeph>copy-revflag</codeph> target copies the default start- and
          end-revision flags into the output directory.</li>
        <li>The DITA topics are converted to HTML files. Unless the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute was specified, each
          DITA topic in the temporary directory now corresponds to one HTML file. The
            <codeph>dita.inner.topics.xhtml</codeph> target is used to process documents that are in the map directory
          (or subdirectories of the map directory). The <codeph>dita.outer.topics.xhtml</codeph> target is used to
          process documents that are outside of the scope of the map, and thus might end up outside of the designated
          output directory. Various DITA-OT parameters control how documents processed by the
            <codeph>dita.outer.topics.xhtml</codeph> target are handled.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
