<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="configuration" xml:lang="en">
  <title>The <filepath>configuration.properties</filepath> file</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle><filepath>configuration.properties</filepath></navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>The <filepath>configuration.properties</filepath> file controls certain common properties, as well as some
    properties that control PDF processing.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>configuration properties<indexterm>default.cascade</indexterm>
          <indexterm>org.dita.pdf2.i18n.enabled</indexterm>
          <indexterm>plugin.ignores</indexterm>
          <indexterm>plugin.order</indexterm>
          <indexterm>plugindirs</indexterm>
          <indexterm>temp-file-name-scheme</indexterm>
          <indexterm>cli.color</indexterm>
          <indexterm>registry</indexterm>
          <indexterm>default.coderef-charset</indexterm>
        </indexterm>
        <indexterm>files <indexterm>config/configuration.properties file</indexterm>
        </indexterm>
        <indexterm>PDF<indexterm>configuration properties</indexterm>
        </indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm>macOS<indexterm>colored console output</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Linux<indexterm>colored console output</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Windows<indexterm>colored console output</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>command line<index-see-also>dita command</index-see-also></indexterm>
        <indexterm>terminal<index-see>command line</index-see></indexterm>
        <indexterm>grammar files<index-see-also>schema</index-see-also><!-- LE: https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3314 -->
          <index-see-also>DTD</index-see-also></indexterm>
        <indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command<indexterm>colored console output</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>metadata<indexterm><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA 1.3<indexterm><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>default.cascade</indexterm>
        <indexterm>org.dita.pdf2.i18n.enabled</indexterm>
        <indexterm>plugin.ignores</indexterm>
        <indexterm>plugin.order</indexterm>
        <indexterm>plugindirs</indexterm>
        <indexterm>temp-file-name-scheme</indexterm>
        <indexterm>cli.color</indexterm>
        <indexterm>registry</indexterm>
        <indexterm>default.coderef-charset</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Java<indexterm>temporary file names</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>temporary file names</indexterm>
        <indexterm>catalog<indexterm>import precedence</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>internationalization<index-see>I18N</index-see></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>The contents of the <filepath>config/configuration.properties</filepath> file are added to the DITA-OT
        configuration in the <codeph>dost-configuration.jar</codeph> file when the plug-in integration process runs. The
        following properties are typically set in this file:</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry id="default-cascade">
          <pt><parmname>default.cascade</parmname></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>Specifies the processing default value for the DITA 1.3 <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt> attribute, which
              determines how map-level metadata attributes are applied to the children of elements where the attributes
              are specified. DITA-OT uses the <option>merge</option> value by default for backwards compatibility with
              DITA 1.2 and earlier.</p>
            <note type="warning" id="protected-config-props">This property can only be set in
                <filepath>configuration.properties</filepath> and should not be modified.</note></pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry id="temp-file-name-scheme">
          <pt><parmname>temp-file-name-scheme</parmname></pt>
          <!-- org.dita.dost.module.GenMapAndTopicListModule$DefaultTempFileScheme -->
          <pd>
            <p>This setting specifies the name of the Java class that defines how the source URL of a topic is mapped to
              the URL of the temporary file name. The current default method uses a 1:1 mapping, though future
              implementations may use alternative approaches such as hashes or full absolute paths as file names.</p>
            <note conref="#configuration/protected-config-props"/>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry id="cli-color" rev="2.5">
          <pt><parmname>cli.color</parmname></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>Specifies whether the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command prints colored output on the command line console.
              When set to <option>true</option>, error messages in <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command output will appear in
              red on terminals that support
              <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code" format="html" scope="external">ANSI escape
                codes</xref>, such as on Linux or macOS. Set to <option>false</option> to disable the color. (Colored
              output is not supported on Windows consoles such as <cmdname>cmd.exe</cmdname> or PowerShell).</p>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry id="plugindirs">
          <pt><parmname>plugindirs</parmname></pt>
          <pd id="plugindirs.desc">A semicolon-separated list of directory paths that DITA-OT searches for plug-ins to
            install; any relative paths are resolved against the DITA-OT base directory. Any immediate subdirectory that
            contains a <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file is installed.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry id="plugin.ignores">
          <pt><parmname>plugin.ignores</parmname></pt>
          <pd id="plugin.ignores.desc">A semicolon-separated list of directory names to be ignored during plug-in
            installation; any relative paths are resolved against the DITA-OT base directory.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry id="plugin-order">
          <pt><parmname>plugin.order</parmname></pt>
          <pd>Defines the order in which plug-ins are processed. In XML catalog files, the order of imports is
            significant. If multiple plug-ins define the same thing (differently), the first catalog entry “wins”.
            DITA-OT uses this property to define the order in which catalog entries are written. This mechanism is
            currently used to ensure that DITA 1.3 grammar files take precedence over their DITA 1.2 equivalents.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry id="registry">
          <pt><parmname>registry</parmname></pt>
          <pd>Defines the list (and order) of plug-in repositories that are searched for available plug-ins during the
            installation process. In addition to the main plug-in registry at
            <xref keyref="site-plugin-registry"/>, you can create a registry of your own to store the custom plug-ins
            for your company or organization. To add a new entry, append the URL for your custom registry directory to
            the <codeph>registry</codeph> key value, separating each entry with a space. For more information, see
            <xref keyref="plugins-registry"/>.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry conref="ant-parameters-details.dita#pdf/org.dita.pdf2.i18n.enabled">
          <pt/>
          <pd/>
        </plentry>
        <plentry id="charset">
          <pt><parmname>default.coderef-charset</parmname></pt>
          <pd>As of DITA-OT 3.3, the default character set for code references can be changed by specifying one of the
            character set values supported by the Java
            <xref format="html" href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/nio/charset/Charset.html"
              scope="external">Charset</xref> class.</pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>
    </section>
  </refbody>
  <related-links>
    <link keyref="dita13-spec-metadata-cascade"/>
    <link keyref="dita13-spec-metadata-cascade-example"/>
    <link keyref="jelovirt-on-pdf2-i18n"/>
  </related-links>
</reference>
