<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="ID">
  <title>Handling content outside the map directory</title>
  <shortdesc>By default, DITA-OT assumes content is located in or beneath the directory containing the DITA map file.
    The <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter can be used to adjust how output is generated for content
    that is located outside the map directory.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname></indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML<indexterm>files outside map directory</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA maps<indexterm>relative file locations</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Background</title>
      <p>This is an issue in the following situations:
        <ul>
          <li>The DITA map is in a directory that is a peer to directories that contain referenced objects.</li>
          <li>The DITA map is in a directory that is below the directories that contain the referenced objects.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Let’s assume that the directory structure for the DITA content looks like the following:</p>
      <p><pre>images/
  fig.png
maps/
  start.ditamap
topics/
  topic.dita</pre></p>
      <p>The DITA map is in the <filepath>maps</filepath> directory, the topics are in the <filepath>topics</filepath>
        directory, and the images are in the <filepath>images</filepath> directory.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Exclude content outside the map directory</title>
      <div outputclass="div-index">
        <indexterm>index<index-see-also>entry file</index-see-also></indexterm>
        <indexterm>entry file<indexterm>broken links, reason for</indexterm></indexterm>
      </div>
      <p>Let’s assume that you run the HTML5 transformation. By default, DITA-OT uses the
          <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter with a value of <option>1</option>, which means that no
        output is generated for content that is located outside the DITA map directory.</p>
      <p>You receive only the following output:</p>
      <p><pre>index.html
commonltr.css
commonrtl.css</pre></p>
      <p>The <filepath>index.html</filepath> file contains the navigation structure, but all the links are broken, since
        no HTML files were built for the topics.</p>
      <p>How do you fix this? By adjusting the parameter setting to shift the output directory.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Shift the output directory to include all content</title>
      <p>To preserve the links to referenced topics and images and make it easier to copy the output directory, set the
          <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter to <option>3</option>.</p>
      <p>Now your output directory structure resembles the structure of the source directory:</p>
      <p><pre>images/
  fig.png
maps/
  index.html
topics/
  topic.html
commonltr.css
commonrtl.css</pre></p>
      <p>The <filepath>index.html</filepath> file is in the <filepath>maps</filepath> directory, the HTML files for the
        topics are in the <filepath>topics</filepath> directory, and the referenced images are in the
          <filepath>images</filepath> directory.</p>
      <note type="tip">If <parmname>args.csspath</parmname> is not set, the default CSS files (and any custom CSS files
        specified via <parmname>args.css</parmname>) will be copied to the root level of the output folder. To copy CSS
        files to an output subfolder named <filepath>css</filepath>, set <parmname>args.csspath</parmname> to
          <option>css</option>.
        <indexterm>CSS<indexterm>copy to specific location</indexterm></indexterm>
      </note>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
