<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="plugin-extension-points-xslt-import">
  <title>XSLT-import extension points</title>
  <shortdesc>You can use these extension points to override XSLT processing steps in pre-processing and certain
    transformation types. The value of the <xmlatt>file</xmlatt> attribute in the <xmlelement>feature</xmlelement>
    element specifies a relative path to an XSL file in the current plug-in. The plug-in installer adds a XSL import
    statement to the default DITA-OT code, so that the XSL override becomes part of the normal build.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>file</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>extension points</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>extension points<indexterm>XSLT</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>preprocessing<indexterm>extension points, XSLT</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Pre-processing</title>
      <p>You can use the following extension points to add XSLT processing to modules in the pre-processing
        pipeline:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.conref</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the pre-processing step that resolves conref.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.maplink</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the <codeph>maplink</codeph> step in the pre-processing pipeline. This is the step that
            generates map-based links.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.mappull</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the <codeph>mappull</codeph> step in the pre-processing pipeline. This is the step that updates
            navigation titles in maps and causes attributes to cascade.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.mapref</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the <codeph>mapref</codeph> step in the pre-processing pipeline. This is the step that resolves
            references to other maps.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.topicpull</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the <codeph>topicpull</codeph> step in the pre-processing pipeline. This is the step that pulls
            text into <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> elements, as well as performing other tasks.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Transformations</title>
      <p>You can use the following extension points to add XSLT processing to modules in DITA-OT transformations:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.map.eclipse.index.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.eclipsehelp.dita#org.dita.eclipsehelp-ext/dita.map.eclipse.index.pre.desc"
            >Runs an Ant target before the Eclipse index extraction process.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.eclipse.plugin</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.eclipsehelp.dita#org.dita.eclipsehelp-ext/dita.xsl.eclipse.plugin.desc"
            >Overrides the default XSLT step that generates the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file for Eclipse
            Help.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.eclipse.toc</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.eclipsehelp.dita#org.dita.eclipsehelp-ext/dita.xsl.eclipse.toc.desc"
            >Overrides the default XSLT step that generates the Eclipse Help table of contents (TOC).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.html.cover</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.xhtml.dita#org.dita.xhtml-ext/dita.xsl.html.cover.desc">Overrides the
            default HTML cover page generation process.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.htmltoc</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.xhtml.dita#org.dita.xhtml-ext/dita.xsl.htmltoc.desc">Overrides the
            default XSLT step that generates the HTML table of contents (TOC).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.html5</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.html5.dita#org.dita.html5-ext/dita.xsl.html5.desc">Overrides the
            default HTML5 transformation. The referenced file is integrated directly into the XSLT step that generates
            HTML5.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.html5.cover</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.html5.dita#org.dita.html5-ext/dita.xsl.html5.cover.desc">Overrides the
            default HTML5 cover page generation process.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.html5.toc</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.html5.dita#org.dita.html5-ext/dita.xsl.html5.toc.desc">Overrides the
            default XSLT step that generates the HTML5 table of contents (TOC).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.htmlhelp.map2hhc</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.htmlhelp.dita#org.dita.htmlhelp-ext/dita.xsl.htmlhelp.map2hhc.desc"
            >Overrides the default XSLT step that generates the HTML Help contents (<filepath>.hhc</filepath>)
            file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.htmlhelp.map2hhp</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.htmlhelp.dita#org.dita.htmlhelp-ext/dita.xsl.htmlhelp.map2hhp.desc"
            >Overrides the default XSLT step that generates the HTML Help project (<filepath>.hhp</filepath>) file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.troff-ast</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.troff.dita#org.dita.troff-ext/dita.xsl.troff-ast.desc">Overrides the
            intermediate block-and-phrase format that is generated as input to troff processing.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.troff</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.troff.dita#org.dita.troff-ext/dita.xsl.troff.desc">Overrides the XSL
            that converts block-and-phrase intermediate markup into troff.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.xhtml</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.xhtml.dita#org.dita.xhtml-ext/dita.xsl.xhtml.desc">Overrides the
            default HTML or XHTML transformation, including HTML Help and Eclipse Help. The referenced file is
            integrated directly into the XSLT step that generates XHTML.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.xsl.xslfo</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.pdf2.dita#org.dita.pdf2-ext/dita.xsl.xslfo.desc">Overrides the default
            PDF transformation. The referenced XSL file is integrated directly into the XSLT step that generates the
            XSL-FO.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example>
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following two files represent a complete (albeit simple) plug-in that adds a company banner to the XHTML
        output. The <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file declares an XSLT file that extends the XHTML processing; the
          <filepath>xsl/header.xsl</filepath> file overrides the default header processing to provide a company
        banner.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Contents of the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;plugin id="com.example.brandheader">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.xsl.xhtml" file="xsl/header.xsl"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>Contents of the <filepath>xsl/header.xsl</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;xsl:stylesheet version="1.0" xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform">
  &lt;xsl:template name="gen-user-header">
    &lt;div>
      &lt;img src="http://www.example.com/company_banner.jpg" 
           alt="Example Company Banner"/>
    &lt;/div>
  &lt;/xsl:template>
&lt;/xsl:stylesheet></codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
