<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="plugin-support" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Version and support information</title>
  <shortdesc>You can use these extension points to define version and support information for a plug-in. Currently,
    DITA-OT does not do anything with this information, but it might do so in the future.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>package.support.name</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.base.dita#org.dita.base-ext/package.support.name.desc">Specifies the
            person who provides support for the DITA-OT plug-in.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>package.support.email</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.base.dita#org.dita.base-ext/package.support.email.desc">Specifies the
            e-mail address of the person who provides support for the DITA-OT plug-in.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>package.version</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.base.dita#org.dita.base-ext/package.version.desc">Specifies the version
            of the DITA-OT plug-in.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p>The value uses the following syntax:</p>
            <codeblock><varname>major</varname>.<varname>minor</varname>.<varname>micro</varname>.<varname>qualifier</varname></codeblock>
            <p>where:</p>
            <ul>
              <li><varname>major</varname> is a number and is required.</li>
              <li><varname>minor</varname> is a number and is optional.</li>
              <li><varname>micro</varname> is a number and is optional.</li>
              <li><varname>qualifier</varname> is optional and can be composed of numerals, uppercase or lower case
                letters, underscores, and hyphens.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>By default, the <parmname>package.version</parmname> value is set to <codeph>0.0.0</codeph>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example>
      <title>Example</title>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;plugin id="com.example.WithSupportInfo">
  &lt;feature extension="package.support.name" value="Joe the Author"/>
  &lt;feature extension="package.support.email" value="joe@example.com"/>
  &lt;feature extension="package.version" value="1.2.3"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
