<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="plugin-extension-points-xslt-parameters">
  <title>XSLT-parameter extension points</title>
  <shortdesc>You can use these extension points to pass parameters into existing XSLT steps in both the pre-processing
    pipeline and DITA-OT transformation. The parameters generally will be available as global
      <xmlelement>xsl:param</xmlelement> values with XSLT overrides.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>preprocessing<indexterm>extension points, parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Pre-processing</title>
      <p>You can use the following extension points to pass parameters to modules in the pre-processing pipeline:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.preprocess.conref.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Pass parameters to the <codeph>conref</codeph> module in the pre-processing pipeline</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.preprocess.mappull.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Pass parameters to the <codeph>mappull</codeph> module in the pre-processing pipeline</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.preprocess.mapref.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Pass parameters to the <codeph>mapref</codeph> module in the pre-processing pipeline</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.preprocess.topicpull.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Pass parameters to the <codeph>topicpull</codeph> module in the pre-processing pipeline</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Transformations</title>
      <p>You can use the following extension points to pass parameters to modules in DITA-OT transformations:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.conductor.eclipse.toc.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.eclipsehelp.dita#org.dita.eclipsehelp-ext/dita.conductor.eclipse.toc.param.desc"
            >Pass parameters to the XSLT step that generates the Eclipse Help table of contents (TOC).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.conductor.html.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.xhtml.dita#org.dita.xhtml-ext/dita.conductor.html.param.desc">Pass
            parameters to the <?oxy_comment_start author="Roger"comment="Verify"?>HTML and<?oxy_comment_end?> HTML Help
            transformations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.conductor.html5.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.html5.dita#org.dita.html5-ext/dita.conductor.html5.param.desc">Pass
            parameters to the HTML5 transformation.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.conductor.html5.toc.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.html5.dita#org.dita.html5-ext/dita.conductor.html5.toc.param.desc">Pass
            parameters to the XSLT step that generates the HTML5 table of contents (TOC).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.conductor.pdf2.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.pdf2.dita#org.dita.pdf2-ext/dita.conductor.pdf2.param.desc">Pass
            parameters to the PDF transformation.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.conductor.xhtml.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.xhtml.dita#org.dita.xhtml-ext/dita.conductor.xhtml.param.desc">Pass
            parameters to the XHTML and Eclipse Help transformations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>dita.conductor.xhtml.toc.param</parmname></dt>
          <dd conaction="pushreplace"
            conref="extension-points-in-org.dita.xhtml.dita#org.dita.xhtml-ext/dita.conductor.xhtml.toc.param.desc">Pass
            parameters to the XSLT step that generates the XHTML table of contents (TOC).</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example>
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following two files represent a complete (albeit simple) plug-in that passes the parameters defined in the
          <filepath>insertParameters.xml</filepath> file to the XHTML transformation process.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Contents of the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;plugin id="com.example.newparam">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.xhtml.param"
           file="insertParameters.xml"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>Contents of the <filepath>insertParameters.xml</filepath></title>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;dummy xmlns:if="ant:if" xmlns:unless="ant:unless">
  <i>&lt;!-- Any Ant code allowed in xslt task is possible. Example: --></i>
  &lt;param name="paramNameinXSLT" expression="${antProperty}"
         if:set="antProperty"/>
&lt;/dummy></codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
