# Applying Puppet code

You can use Bolt to apply blocks of Puppet code, called manifest blocks, to
remote targets.

You can create manifest blocks that use existing content from the Forge, or use
a plan to mix procedural orchestration and action with declarative resource
configuration from a block. Most features of the Puppet language are available
in a manifest block: classes, custom resource types, and functions. For
information about what language features aren't supported, see [Manifest block
limitations](#manifest-block-limitations).

> 🔩 **Tip:** If you installed Bolt as a Ruby Gem, make sure you have installed
  the core modules required to use the `puppet apply` command. These modules are
  listed in the [Bolt GitHub
  repository](https://github.com/puppetlabs/bolt/blob/main/Puppetfile) and you
  can install them using a Puppetfile.

📖 **Related information**  

- [Configure Bolt to download and install modules](bolt_installing_modules.md#)
- [Puppetfile example](https://github.com/puppetlabs/bolt/blob/main/Puppetfile)
- [Puppet Forge](https://forge.puppet.com/)

## Applying manifest blocks from the command line

Similar to the [`puppet apply`
command](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/man/apply.html), which applies a
standalone Puppet manifest to a local system, you can use Bolt to apply
Puppet manifests to remote targets.

Manifest blocks require facts to compile. When Bolt applies Puppet manifests, it
automatically installs the packages necessary to run the apply command and
gathers facts using [facter](https://puppet.com/docs/facter/latest/), making the
facts available to the manifest block. Bolt also identifies targets that do not
have Puppet agents and runs the [`puppet_agent::install`
task](https://forge.puppet.com/puppetlabs/puppet_agent) to install the agent.

> **Note:** Bolt installs the Puppet agent package to enable the use of Puppet
  code. It does not require setting up a server-agent architecture between the
  remote systems and the local system running Bolt.

### Applying manifest files

Bolt can apply a manifest from a file by passing an absolute path to the
manifest:

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt apply manifests/server.pp --targets servers
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltApply -Manifest manifests/server.pp -Targets servers
  ```

### Applying manifest code

Bolt can apply manifest code directly by passing the code to the `execute`
command-line option:

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt apply --execute "file { '/etc/puppetlabs': ensure => present }" --targets servers
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltApply -Execute "file { '/etc/puppetlabs': ensure => present }" -Targets servers
  ```

### Definitions and declarations

When applying manifest blocks, it's important to understand the distinction
between _definitions_ and _declarations_. 

Definitions, which include class definitions and defined resource types, are
blocks of Puppet code that can be used when called by name. Defining a class or
defined type makes the code available to a catalog, but does not add it to the
catalog. A class or defined type that is not called by name, or _declared_, is
not added to the catalog, and thus none of the code in those definitions will be
applied to the targets.

When you apply a manifest containing only definitions, Bolt will issue a helpful
warning to let you know that the apply will do nothing:

```shell
$ bolt apply --execute "define bolt { file { 'etc/puppetlabs': ensure => present } }" --targets servers

Manifest only contains definitions and will result in no changes on the targets.
. . .
```

📖 **Related information**  

- [Defining and declaring
  classes](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/lang_classes.html)
- [Defining and declaring defined
  types](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/lang_defined_types.html)

### How manifest blocks are applied

Bolt compiles the code in your manifest block into a catalog. Bolt compiles code
in the following order:

- Facts gathered from the targets or set in your inventory.
- [`vars`](inventory_file_v2.md#title-1541705359297) set in your inventory.

Like the code compiled with the `puppet apply` command, all of the variables are
generated. As a result, you can reuse code between Bolt and Puppet. Bolt then
copies custom module content from the modulepath to the targets and applies the
catalog using Puppet.

After the catalog compiles and is executed successfully on all targets, `bolt
apply` displays the reports generated by applying the catalog on each target.

### Return value

When you run the command, Bolt will first install required packages and gather
facts, apply the catalog compiled from the manifest blocks, and then report a
summary of any changes made on the remote systems:

```shell
Starting: install puppet and gather facts on target1, target2
Finished: install puppet and gather facts with 0 failures in 3.81 sec
Starting: apply catalog on target1, target2
Started on target1...
Started on target2...
Finished on target1:
  changed: 1, failed: 0, unchanged: 0, skipped: 0, noop: 0
Finished on target2:
  changed: 1, failed: 0, unchanged: 0, skipped: 0, noop: 0
Finished: apply catalog with 0 failures in 4.52 sec
Successful on 2 targets: target1,target2
Ran on 2 targets in 8.42 sec
```

## Applying Puppet code from Puppet Forge modules in a YAML plan

You can apply Puppet code from a module downloaded from the Puppet Forge in a
YAML plan. To apply Puppet code in a YAML plan, use the YAML plan `resources`
step.

To learn more about applying Puppet code in YAML plans, see [Writing YAML
plans](writing_yaml_plans.md#applying-puppet-code-from-puppet-forge-modules).

## Applying manifest blocks from a Puppet plan

You can apply manifest blocks to remote systems during execution of a Puppet
plan using the `apply` function.

Manifest blocks require facts to compile. If your plan includes a manifest
block, use the `apply_prep` function in your plan _before_ your manifest block.
The `apply_prep` function installs the packages necessary to run the apply
command and gathers facts by running
[facter](https://puppet.com/docs/facter/latest/), making the facts available to
the manifest block. The `apply_prep` function also identifies the targets that
do not have Puppet agents and runs the [`puppet_agent::install`
task](https://forge.puppet.com/puppetlabs/puppet_agent) to install the agent.

> **Note:** Bolt installs the Puppet agent package to enable the use of Puppet
  code. It does not require setting up a server-agent architecture between the
  remote systems and the local system running Bolt.

### Options

The `apply` function supports the following options:

- `_catch_errors => true` returns a `ResultSet` including failed results, rather
  than failing the plan.

- `_description => <DESCRIPTION>` adds a description to the apply block,
  allowing you to distinguish apply blocks.

- `_noop => true` applies the manifest block in Puppet no-operation mode,
  returning a report of the changes it would make, but takes no action.

- `_run_as => <USER>` applies the manifest block as the specified user. (This
  option is for transports that allow a user to run commands under a different
  username.)

```puppet
# Preview installing docker as root on $targets.
apply($targets, _catch_errors => true, _noop => true, _run_as => root) {
    include 'docker'
}
```

### How manifest blocks are applied

Bolt compiles the code in your manifest block into a catalog. Bolt compiles code
in the following order:

- Facts gathered from the targets or set in your inventory.
- Local variables from the plan.
- [`vars`](inventory_file_v2.md#title-1541705359297) set in your inventory.

Like the code compiled with the `puppet apply` command, all the variables are
generated. As a result, you can reuse code between Bolt and Puppet. Bolt then
copies custom module content from the Bolt modulepath to the targets and
applies the catalog using Puppet.

After the catalog compiles and is executed successfully on all targets, `apply`
returns the reports generated by applying the catalog on each target.

### Return value

The `apply` function returns a [`ResultSet`
object](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/bolt_types_reference.html#resultset)
that contains an [`ApplyResult`
object](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/bolt_types_reference.html#applyresult)
for each target. 

```puppet
$results = apply($targets) { ... }
$results.each |$result| {
   notice($result.report)
}
```

## Configuring concurrency

Each target requires a separate catalog be compiled with its unique `facts` and
`vars`. The apply action compiles and applies catalogs in parallel on the Bolt
host. Concurrency of catalog compilation is controlled by the
`compile-concurrency` config option. This option is limited to twice the number
of threads your CPU can run concurrently. Catalog application, on the other
hand, uses the Bolt default thread pool controlled by the `concurrency` option.

## Using Hiera data in a manifest block

Use [Hiera](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/hiera_intro.html) to separate
configuration from context-specific data, where context may be fact-based or the
name of a target.

> **Note:** Only Hiera version 5 is supported in Bolt.

Hiera is a key-value configuration data look up system, used for separating data
from Puppet code. You use Hiera data to implicitly override default class
parameters. You can also explicitly look up data from Hiera via the [`lookup`
function](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/function.html#lookup):

```puppet
plan do_thing() {
  apply('localhost') {
    notice("Some data in Hiera: ${lookup('mydata')}")
  }
}
```

Manifest block compilation can access Hiera data that you add to your Bolt
configuration. The default location for Hiera config is `<PROJECT DIRECTORY>/hiera.yaml`.
You can change this with the `hiera-config` key in a Bolt config file or the
`--hiera-config` CLI option.

Following the Hiera 5 convention, the default data directory is relative to
`hiera.yaml` at `<PROJECT DIRECTORY>/data`. For configuration file examples, see [Configuring
Hiera](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/hiera_config_yaml_5.html). Bolt 
will not automatically load any Hiera data from this directory. If you want to load data from a
data file you must set the relevant paths in your Hiera config.

> **Note**: The target name is made available to Hiera as `trusted.certname`. You can learn more about
  [interpolating variables into Hiera config
  here](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/hiera_merging.html#interpolate_puppet_variable).

If a custom data provider is used, such as `hiera-eyaml`, which allows you to
encrypt your data, the gem dependencies must be available to Bolt. See [Install
gems with Bolt packages](bolt_installing.md#).

[Hiera interpolations](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/hiera_merging.html#hiera_interpolation)
are not supported in Bolt outside of apply blocks, because Hiera data is looked up per-target and
plans do not run in a per-target context. If you want to use Hiera to look up data outside of an apply
block, you can use a [plan hierarchy](writing_plans.md#using-hiera-data-in-plans).

## Puppet log functions in Bolt

You can use Puppet log functions in Bolt plans, but Bolt log levels do not map
directly to Puppet log levels. For example, a `notice` function in a plan logs
at the `info` level in Bolt. Log levels map as follows:

| Puppet log level | Bolt log level |
| --- | --- |
| `debug` | `trace` |
| `info` | `debug` |
| `notice` | `info` |
| `warning` | `warn` |
| `err` | `error` |

📖 **Related information**  

- [Configuring Bolt](configuring_bolt.md)

## Available plan functions

In addition to the standard Puppet functions available to a catalog, such as
`lookup()`, you can use the following Bolt functions in a manifest block:

- [`puppetdb_query`](plan_functions.md#puppetdb_query)
- [`puppetdb_facts`](plan_functions.md#puppetdb_facts)
- [`facts`](plan_functions.md#facts)
- [`vars`](plan_functions.md#vars)

## Manifest block limitations

Exported resources are not supported in manifest blocks. You must pass exported
resources directly instead of exporting and collecting them from PuppetDB. If
you need to interact with resources managed during a normal run, use the
[`puppetdb_query` function](plan_functions.md#puppetdb_query).

In addition, the following top-level variables, which exist in normal catalog
compilation, are not included during manifest block compilation:

- `$server_facts`
- Master variables like `$servername`
- `$environment`

You can optionally set these from a target's `vars`, but they don't have
defaults in Bolt.

## Examples

### Create a sample manifest for nginx on Linux

Create a manifest that sets up a web server with nginx, and run it as a plan.

1.  Go to the `site-modules` directory in the default Bolt project directory:
    `~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules`

1.  Create a module named profiles.
    -   If you use the Puppet Development Kit: `pdk new module profiles`
    -   Otherwise create `~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules/profiles`

1.  Add a `plans` directory to the profiles module.

1.  In the plans directory, create a manifest file called `nginx_install.pp` and
    add the following code:

    ```puppet
    plan profiles::nginx_install(
         TargetSpec $targets,
         String $site_content = 'hello!',
       ) {

         # Install the puppet-agent package if Puppet is not detected.
         # Copy over custom facts from the Bolt modulepath.
         # Run the `facter` command line tool to gather target information.
         $targets.apply_prep

         # Compile the manifest block into a catalog
         apply($targets) {
           if($facts['os']['family'] == 'redhat') {
             package { 'epel-release':
               ensure => present,
               before => Package['nginx'],
             }
             $html_dir = '/usr/share/nginx/html'
           } else {
             $html_dir = '/var/www/html'
           }

           package {'nginx':
             ensure => present,
           }

           file {"${html_dir}/index.html":
             content => $site_content,
             ensure  => file,
           }

           service {'nginx':
             ensure  => 'running',
             enable  => 'true',
             require => Package['nginx']
           }
         }
       }
    ```

1.  Run the plan on a target:

    ```shell
    bolt plan run profiles::nginx_install --targets mytarget.mydomain
    ```

1.  In a web browser, open `mytarget.mydomain`. The page displays the text
    `hello!`

> 🔩 **Tip:** For complex web server deployments, consider adding the
  [puppet-nginx](https://forge.puppet.com/puppet/nginx) module.

📖 **Related information**  

- [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/resources/glossary/nginx/)
- [Specify targets](running_bolt_commands.md#adding-options-to-bolt-commands)
- [Bolt Projects](projects.md)


### Create a sample manifest for IIS on Windows

Create a manifest that sets up a web server with IIS and run it as a plan.

1.  Go to the `site-modules` directory in the default Bolt project directory:
    `~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules`

1.  Create a module named profiles.
    -   If you use the Puppet Development Kit: `pdk new module profiles`
    -   Otherwise create `~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules/profiles`

1.  Add a `plans` directory to the profiles module.

1.  Install the IIS dependencies.
    1.  Add the following code to `~/.puppetlabs/bolt/Puppetfile`

        ```ruby
        forge 'http://forge.puppetlabs.com'
        mod 'puppetlabs-iis', '4.3.2'
        mod 'profiles', local: true
        ```

    1.  Run `bolt puppetfile install`

1.  In the plans directory, create a manifest file called `iis_install.pp` and
    add the following code:

    ```puppet
    plan profiles::iis_install(
         TargetSpec $targets,
         String $site_content = 'hello!',
       ) {

         # Install the puppet-agent package if Puppet is not detected. 
         # Copy over custom facts from the Bolt modulepath.
         # Run the `facter` command line tool to gather target information.
         $targets.apply_prep

         # Compile the manifest block into a catalog
         return apply($targets, '_catch_errors' => true) {
           $iis_features = ['Web-WebServer','Web-Scripting-Tools']

           iis_feature { $iis_features:
             ensure => 'present',
           }

           # Delete the default website to prevent a port binding conflict.
           iis_site {'Default Web Site':
             ensure  => absent,
             require => Iis_feature['Web-WebServer'],
           }

           iis_site { 'minimal':
             ensure          => 'started',
             physicalpath    => 'c:\\inetpub\\minimal',
             applicationpool => 'DefaultAppPool',
             require         => [
               File['minimal'],
               Iis_site['Default Web Site']
             ],
           }

           file { 'minimal':
             ensure => 'directory',
             path   => 'c:\\inetpub\\minimal',
           }

           file { 'content':
             ensure  => 'file',
             path    => 'c:\\inetpub\\minimal\\index.html',
             content => $site_content,
           }
         }
       }
    ```
1.  Run the plan on a target:

    ```shell
    bolt plan run profiles::iis_install --targets mytarget.mydomain --transport winrm
    ```

1.  In a web browser, open `mytarget.mydomain`. The page displays the text
    `hello!`

📖 **Related information**  

- [IIS](https://www.iis.net)
- [Specify targets](running_bolt_commands.md#adding-options-to-bolt-commands)
- [Bolt projects](projects.md)

📖 **Related information**
- For information on how Bolt loads the modulepath, see [Modules overview](modules.md#modulepath).
- To learn more about using Puppet device modules, see [Running Bolt on network
  devices](running_bolt_networkd.md#-using-puppet-device-modules-from-an-apply-block)
